2024 CBA REDLINE VERSION
THIS REDLINE VERSION OF THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2024 CBA
REFLECTS THE CONTRACTUAL CHANGES AS COMPARED
TO THE DECEMBER 13, 2014 JCBA.
Note: This redline version only compares Sections 1 – 40 and does
not include the letters of agreement in the September 12, 2024 CBA.
This document is intended to serve as an internal resource only, and
does not modify in any way the 2024 CBA. In the event of any
inconsistency between this document and the 2024 CBA, the 2024
CBA and signed side letters will prevail.

-- 1 of 293 --

Table of Contents-1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section 1 Recognition and Scope ......................................... 1-1
Section 2 Definitions .............................................................. 2-1
Section 3 Compensation ....................................................... 3-1
Section 4 Expenses ............................................................... 4-1
Section 5 Moving Expenses .................................................. 5-1
Section 6 Crew Accommodations ......................................... 6-1
Section 7 Uniforms ................................................................ 7-1
Section 8 Vacation ............................................................... 8-1
Section 9 Sick Leave............................................................. 9-1
Section 10 Scheduling .......................................................... 10-1
Section 11 Hours of Service ................................................. 11-1
Section 12 Reserve Duty ...................................................... 12-1
Section 13 Temporary Duty Assignment (TDY) ..................... 13-1
Section 14 International Flying .............................................. 14-1
Section 15 Foreign Language Speaker ................................ 15-1
Section 16 Deadheading ....................................................... 16-1
Section 17 Co-Terminals....................................................... 17-1
Section 18 Charters .............................................................. 18-1
Section 19 Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) ........................... 19-1
Section 20 Seniority .............................................................. 20-1
Section 21 Period of Probation ............................................. 21-1
Section 22 Filling of Vacancies ............................................. 22-1
Section 23 Reduction in Force .............................................. 23-1
Section 24 Prisoner and Hostage ......................................... 24-1
Section 25 Leaves of Absence/Approved Time Off..…….…. 25-1
Section 26 Insurance, Retirement, and Other Benefits ........ 26-1
Section 27 Injury on Duty (IOD) ............................................ 27-1
Section 28 Medical Examinations ......................................... 28-1
Section 29 Training ............................................................... 29-1
Section 30 Dispute Resolution and Grievance Procedures .. 30-1
Section 31 System Board of Adjustment .............................. 31-1
Section 32 Union Business ................................................... 32-1
Section 33 APFA Employee Assistance Program ................ 33-1
Section 34 Safety and Security Department (SSD) .............. 34-1
Section 35 Union Security ..................................................... 35-1
Section 36 Voluntary Contributions: APFA PAC ................... 36-1

-- 2 of 293 --

Table of Contents-2
Section 37 General ............................................................... 37-1
Section 38 Crew Rest ........................................................... 38-1
Section 39 Amendments to the Agreement .......................... 39-1
Section 40 Duration............................................................... 40-1

-- 3 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
1-1
SECTION 1 - RECOGNITION AND SCOPE
A. RECOGNITION
In accordance with the American Airlines Flight Attendants' Certification Case Number R- 7401
made by the National Mediation Board on September 2, 2014, the Company hereby recognizes
the Association of Professional Flight Attendants as the duly designated and authorized
representative of the Flight Attendants in the employ of the Company for the purposes of the
Railway Labor Act, as amended.
B. SCOPE
1. Only American Airlines employees shall be used as Flight Attendants in accordance with
Definitions, Section 2.
2. Only regularly employed American Airlines Flight Attendants shall be entitled to bid and fly all
operations outlined in Hours of Service, Section 11. As an exception, the Company may
select Flight Attendants from the American Airlines System Seniority List to participate in FAA
Proving Runs.
3. A Flight Attendant shall provide beverage and meal service as set forth in the Flight Attendant
Manual and revisions thereto. Such service shall be rendered only in the cabin of the aircraft.
C. SUCCESSORSHIP
1. The Company shall require any Successor, including, without limitation, any assignee or
purchaser, any merged company or companies, transferee, administrator, receiver, executor
and/or trustee to cause the Company (i.e., the airline entity that was acquired) to continue to
be bound by all the terms of this Agreement as a condition of any transaction that results in a
Successor, subject to applicable procedures under the Railway Labor Act. For the purposes
of Paragraph C, a Successor shall be defined as an entity that acquires or controls all or
substantially all of the assets or equity American Airlines Group or the Company through a
single transaction or multi-step related transactions (“Successorship Transaction”). The
Company shall provide the APFA with written notice of any Successorship Transaction no
later than thirty (30) days prior to the closing of the transaction and such notice to be subject
to any confidentiality restrictions that the Company in its discretion may impose on the APFA
or legal requirements that may apply.
2. The Company shall give written notice of the existence of this Agreement, and a copy of this
Agreement, to any proposed Successor before the Company and the proposed Successor
enter into any arrangement or agreement with respect to a potential Successor transaction.
D. LABOR PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS
1. In the event the Company is merged with another airline, the Flight Attendants covered
hereunder shall, upon such merger of the airlines, be provided labor protective provisions no
less favorable than the labor protective provisions specified by the Civil Aeronautics Board
(CAB) in the Allegheny-Mohawk merger as specified in Section 1 (Introduction), Section 2
(Definitions), Section 4 (Displacement Allowance), Section 5 (Dismissal Allowance), Section
6 (Benefits), Section 7 (Lump Sum Payment in Lieu of Dismissal Allowances), Section 10
(Rearrangement of Forces in Anticipation of a Merger) and Section 12 (No Requirement for
Employees to Accept Employment in a Different Craft or Class) of the Allegheny-Mohawk
labor protective provisions. The moving expenses provided for in Section 8 of the Allegheny-
Mohawk labor protective provisions, shall consist of the Moving Expenses provided in Section

-- 4 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
1-2
5 of this Agreement. In lieu of Section 11 of the Allegheny-Mohawk labor protective provisions,
the provisions of Reduction in Force, Section 23, shall apply. If the Company is under Chapter
11 bankruptcy protection during the duration of this Agreement, the Association agrees that
only Sections 3 and 13 of the Allegheny-Mohawk labor protective provisions will apply until
one (1) year after the implementation of a confirmed plan of reorganization in such Chapter
11 case.
2. In addition to the protections specified in Paragraph D.1, in the event the Company is merged
with another airline whose Flight Attendants are not represented by the APFA, the Flight
Attendants covered hereunder shall, upon such merger of the airlines, be provided labor
protective provisions no less favorable than the labor protective provisions as contained in
Sections 3 and 13 of the Allegheny-Mohawk merger.
E. PARTIAL TRANSACTIONS
In addition to all other protections under this Agreement, if, within any twelve (12) month period
while the Agreement remains in effect, American Airlines Group or the Company sells, transfers or
disposes of assets which, net of asset purchases or acquisitions during the same twelve (12) month
period, constitute twenty percent (20%) or more of the value of the assets of the Company or
American Airlines Group (the closing of any such transaction(s) which alone or in the aggregate
satisfy the aforesaid percentage being referred to as a “Triggering Event”), then:
1. In the event another air carrier (a “Transferee”) purchases or acquires any aircraft of the
Company or American Airlines Group as part of any transaction that constitutes a Triggering
Event, the APFA shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether or not Flight Attendants from
the American Airlines System Seniority List (the “Transferring Flight Attendants”) shall transfer
to the Transferee and which Flight Attendants shall transfer. The number of Transferring
Flight Attendants shall be determined by calculating the average Flight Attendant staffing on
a monthly basis over the prior twelve (12) months attributable to the aircraft transferred to the
Transferee in connection with the Triggering Event; and
2. The Company and American Airlines Group shall require any Transferee to employ the
Transferring Flight Attendants, with the integration of the Transferring Flight Attendants into
the Transferee’s seniority list to be governed by the APFA Merger Policy if both pre-transaction
flight attendant groups are represented by the APFA and otherwise by Sections 3 and 13 of
the Allegheny-Mohawk LPPs.
F. FORCE MAJEURE AND BANKRUPTCY PROTECTION
1. Paragraph E shall not apply to: (1) transactions made necessary by circumstances over which
the Company has no control, as defined in Paragraph F.3; (2) the retirement of aged assets
in the ordinary course of business; and, (3) financing transactions such as sale-leasebacks
where the transferred assets continue to be used in the Company’s operation.
2. If the Company is under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection during the duration of this
Agreement, the APFA agrees that the provisions of Paragraph E, as amended, will not apply
until one (1) year after the implementation of a confirmed plan of reorganization in such
Chapter 11 case.
3. The Company will be excused from compliance with the provisions of Paragraph E to the
extent that a circumstance over which the Company does not have control is the cause of an
asset reduction below the levels guaranteed in Paragraph E. The term “circumstance over
which the Company does not have control” includes, without limitation: a natural disaster;
labor dispute grounding of a substantial number of the Company’s aircraft by government
agency or by voluntary action by the Company for safety reasons in lieu thereof, which in

-- 5 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
1-3
either case could not be cured or avoided by the Company; reduction in flying operations
because of suppliers being unable to provide sufficient critical materials for the Company’s
operations; revocation of the Company’s operating certificate(s); war emergency; or acts of
terrorism.
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of Amendments to the Agreement, Section 39, and Duration,
Section 40, the Labor Protective Provisions provided for in Paragraphs D and E, herein shall
not be reduced, delayed or otherwise diminished by American Airlines Group, the Company,
the APFA, nor any Successor to the Company or APFA, for a period of up to and including
three (3) years after the date of any merger, acquisition, or partial transaction as described
herein.
G. SEVERABILITY
Should any part or provision of the Agreement be rendered invalid by reason of any existing or
subsequently enacted legislation, such invalidation of any part or provision of this Agreement
shall not invalidate the remaining portions thereof, and they shall remain in full force and effect.
H. REMEDIES
1. The Company specifically agrees to arbitrate any grievance filed by the APFA alleging
violation of this Section on an expedited basis directly before the System Board of Adjustment
sitting with a neutral member.
2. The dispute shall be heard expeditiously no later than thirty (30) days following the submission
to the System Board and decided expeditiously not later than thirty (30) days after the closing
of the hearing, unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.

-- 6 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
2-1
SECTION 2 - DEFINITIONS
A. “Active Flight Attendant” is a Flight Attendant who is not on an unpaid leave and is on payroll for
at least fifteen (15) days in a contractual month.
B. “Block-to-Block/Block Time/Block Hours” for flying pay purposes means that period of time
beginning when an aircraft first moves from the ramp blocks at the gate for the purpose of flight
and ending when the aircraft comes to a stop at the gate for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers at either intermediate stops or final destination.
C. “Calendar Day” shall mean the period from 0000-2359 hours.
D. “Call Out Pay/Report No Fly” is pay that applies when a Flight Attendant reports to the airport for
a specific flight assignment but does no flying as specified in Hours of Service, Section 11.D.3.
E. “Carry Over/Change Over” is a replacement sequence that modifies an originally awarded or
assigned sequence that reports in one month and releases in the following month and is placed on
a Flight Attendant’s schedule no later than the tenth (10th) day of the calendar month in which the
trip originates.
E.F. “Charter” means an off-line or on-line flight that is not a regularly scheduled flight.
“
F. “Co-Terminals” as used in this Agreement shall mean: (DEFINED IN SECTION 17)
1. Kennedy/Newark/La Guardia
2. Midway/O'Hare
3. Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport/ Love Field
4. *Los Angeles/Ontario/Burbank/Long Beach/Orange County
5. San Francisco/Oakland/San Jose
6. Washington National/Dulles International/Baltimore-Washington International
7. Miami/Ft. Lauderdale
8. Tampa/St. Petersburg
9. *Ground transportation, if requested, will be provided from/to LAX for any operation involving
sequences originating and terminating at the prescribed co-terminals.
10. For any city not presently served by the Company, "co-terminals" shall mean two (2) or more
airports serving the same metropolitan area.
G. “Credit Window” is the difference (hours/minutes) between the monthly PBS awarded line value
and the TTS Maximum. TTS/UBL sequence(s) drops, pick-ups and trades will increase or decrease
the credit window.
G.H. “Credited Hours” shall be those applied towards a Flight Attendant's monthly maximum flight
time as set forth in Scheduling, Section 10, and shall include, but not be limited to regularly sched-
uled sequences, extra sections, charter trips, ferry flights, rescheduled flights, scenic flights,
deadhead flights , vacation, sick leave credit, minimum duty period credit, Duty Rig, trip hour credit,
Company or Union Business credit, salary continuance credit, jury duty credit, bereavement,
training, and compensated publicity duty credit.
H.I. “Crew Base” means the location designated by a certificate holder where a Flight Attendant
normally begins and ends their duty periods, also known as the Flight Attendant’s Home Base.

-- 7 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
2-2
I.J. “Deadheading” means time spent by a Flight Attendant, at Company request, in air or surface
travel between two (2) points for the purpose of protecting a sequence or returning to their crew
base, or otherwise positioning a Flight Attendant for Company business.
K. “Direct Conflict” is when there is a “direct conflict” between two (2) trip sequences and the second
trip sequence is scheduled to depart prior to the scheduled arrival of the first.
J.L. “Diversion” as used in this Agreement means an unscheduled landing at an airport other than the
airport at which the flight was scheduled to land and other than the airport of departure.
K.M. “Domestic Flight” is defined as a Flight that operates within the contiguous forty-eight (48)
states and Canada and Alaska.
L.N. “Double Up Sequences” are two sequences within the same duty day with a minimum of
thirty (30) minutes between release of the first sequence until report of the second sequence as
defined in Section 10.D.12.c.
M.O. “Duty Period/On-Duty Time” shall include all flight segments, ground time between flight
segments, plus report time before scheduled departure of a flight and continue until fifteen (15)
minutes for Domestic and thirty (30) minutes for International after the arrival of such flight, or actual
release time, whichever is later. as follows. The report and release time also applies to deadhead
flight segments.
(DEFINED IN SECTIONS 11 & 14)
1. All Domestic flights shall report one (1) hour before scheduled departure and continue until
fifteen (15) minutes after the actual arrival.
2. All NIPD flight segments as defined in Paragraph HH shall report one (1) hour before
scheduled departure and continue until thirty (30) minutes after the actual arrival.
3. All IPD flight segments as defined in Paragraph Y shall report one (1) hour and fifteen (15)
minutes before scheduled departure and continue until thirty (30) minutes after the actual
arrival.
4. The report and release time also applies to deadhead flight segments.
N.P. “Duty Rig” is a guarantee for each on-duty period that will pay and credit one (1) hour for
every two (2) hours of actual on-duty time prorated on a minute-by-minute basis of actual on-duty
time.
O.Q. “Electronic Trade Board (ETB)” is a real time, electronic method of picking up, dropping,
and trading sequences between Flight Attendants on a first come/first served basis.
R. “Extended RAP” as used in this Agreement occurs when, at the Reserve’s option, they request to
extend the end of their RAP. Extensions are approved through Crew Scheduling.
P. “Extended-Long-Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which has a
scheduled International segment in excess of fourteen (14) hours and thirty (30) minutes block.
(DEFINED IN SECTION 14)
Q.S. “Flex Days” are scheduled days off in a Reserve line on which a Reserve can be assigned a
trip in accordance with Reserve Duty, Section 12.B.3.

-- 8 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
2-3
R.T. “Flight Attendant” as used in this Agreement shall include employees who are responsible
for the performing or assisting in the performance of all en route passenger service and who have
completed training as prescribed by the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) and whose names appear
on the current Flight Attendant System Seniority List.
S.U. “Foreign Language Speaker/Speaker” means a Flight Attendant who is a designated
Flight Attendant awarded or assigned to a flight requiring one or more foreign language qualified
Flight Attendant(s), who has successfully passed a Company-approved proficiency test in the
language used at the point of destination/origin. For example, on a PHL-FRA flight, the Speaker
Flight Attendant would be German qualified.
As an exception, in the event a charter or scheduled segment with group bookings where the
majority of customers have been identified as foreign speaking, the Company may require
Speakers with a specific language qualification. (i.e., Spanish qualified Speakers may be utilized
on a flight from CLT to LGW or from PIT to LAX transporting Spanish speaking passengers).
T.V. “Golden Days” are scheduled days off in Reserve lines that may not be moved without the
mutual consent of the Reserve and the Company.
U.W. “Home Base Rest” means the period of time at a Flight Attendant’s crew base between two
(2) sequences/assignments.
V.X. “Home Base Time (HBT)” means the actual time of day in the Crew Base to which a Flight
Attendant is assigned.
W.Y. “Injury on Duty (IOD)” is an occupational illness or injury sustained while on duty, as
described in Injury on Duty, Section 27.
X.Z. “International Flight” An International flight is any flight operating or deadheading outside
the forty-eight (48) contiguous United States with the exception of Canada, and Alaska. This
exception does not apply if a flight originates outside the contiguous forty-eight (48) United States
and proceeds non-stop to Canada or Alaska and vice versa.
Y. “International Premium Destination (IPD)” is defined as any operating or deadheading flight
to/from Europe, Asia, and destinations in Deep South America, e.g., Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo,
Santiago, Chile and Buenos Aires etc., that have a premium level of service comparable to
European destinations. Hawaii and other destinations will also be considered International
Premium Destinations if the routes include a premium level of service.(DEFINED IN SECTION 14)
Z.AA. “Involuntary Assignment” means an assignment to a Lineholder on an off day pursuant to
the language specified in Scheduling, Section 10.I and the Priority of Trip Assignment language
specified in Reserve Duty, Section 12.O.
AA.BB. “Layover” or “Remain Over Night (RON)” means the period of time between duty
periods within a trip sequence.
BB.CC. “Lead Flight Attendant” is the Flight Attendant who has been awarded or assigned the
“Number 1” position on a trip sequence. In the event such Flight Attendant does not cover a flight
or flights in their line of time, the position selection provisions of Scheduling, Section 10.S shall
apply.
CC.DD. “Line of Flying” shall mean a Line of Time or a Reserve’s scheduled days available for duty
bid for and awarded by the Preferential Bid System (PBS).

-- 9 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
2-4
DD.EE. “Line of Time” shall mean a monthly unit of Flight Attendant flying containing a minimum of
seventy (70) credit hours and a maximum of ninety (90) credit hours per bid period. The Company
may flex the maximum line value by an annual amount of twenty-five (25) hours, but in no case
more than five (5) hours during any given month. As an exception, a Flight Attendant may indicate
a bid choice which may allow the bid award to exceed the bounds specified by bidding a High or
Low bidding option. Lines constructed in accordance with this bid option shall be constructed to
no less than forty (40) hours (Low Option) or no more than one hundred and ten hours (110) hours
(High Option).
FF. “Modified RAP” is a RAP with a modified start time but the end time is the same as the originally
published RAP.
EE. “Long-Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which has a scheduled
International segment in excess of twelve (12) hours block but not more than fourteen (14) hours
and thirty (30) minutes block. (DEFINED IN SECTION 14)
FF. “Mid-Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which does not contain flying in
excess of twelve (12) hours block. The on-duty period will not be scheduled or rescheduled for
more than fourteen (14) hours, but not to exceed fifteen (15) hours. (DEFINED IN SECTION 14)
GG. “Month-Calendar/Contractual” means the period from and including the first day of, to and
including the last day of each calendar month of the year, except that the Company may create
contractual months by making adjustments to a calendar month as follows:
1. A thirty-one (31) day month may be used to stabilize lines of time by utilizing one (1) day from
the thirty-one (31) day month to increase the flight time for schedule purposes in the short
month.
2. As an exception to Paragraph GG.1, the Company will be permitted to add or subtract a day
or days to any bid month to stabilize the monthly schedule. This provision cannot be used to
add or subtract a day from the calendar year.
3. The Company shall make the determination of adjusted months in advance of the calendar
year in which such subtraction or addition will take place and must be published to the Flight
Attendants prior to vacation bids.
4. Should there be any changes made in the definition and application of “month” for other flight
crewmembers, the Company will meet and confer with the APFA regarding applying such
changes to Flight Attendants on the same applicable date(s).
HH. “Multiple Sequences” means multiple sequences (terminating and beginning) in the same
calendar day separated by legal crew base rest, plus forty-five (45) minutes as defined in Section
10.D.12.b.
HH. “Non-International Premium Destination (NIPD)” is International flying that does not meet the
definition of International Premium Destination Flying. (DEFINED IN SECTION 14)
II. “Non-Long Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which does not contain
flying in excess of twelve (12) hours block. The on-duty period will not be scheduled or
rescheduled to exceed fourteen (14) hours. (DEFINED IN SECTION 14)
JJ.II. “On-Duty All-Nighter (ODAN)” is a sequence consisting of a single duty period that
includes all of the on-duty hours between 0100 and 0500 Home Base Time (HBT).

-- 10 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
2-5
KK.JJ. “Open Time” shall include, but not be limited to the following:
1. All known trip sequences not assigned to a Flight Attendant, including extra sections, Standby
Reserve Duty (Reserves only), supplementary time, flights rescheduled as a result of
cancellations, sequences made available after the monthly schedule is awarded, and time
dropped through TTS;
2. Sequences vacated by lineholders (e.g., leaves of absence, sick leave, jury duty, some
charters, publicity flights, Union Business, etc.).
LL.KK. “Over Water Operations” means all Company certificated routes or charter operations on
which the FAA regulations require over water equipment.
MM.LL. “Pay No Credit” means a Flight Attendant is paid but not credited for the time. Such pay
is above the minimum monthly guarantee and the time does not count for purposes of reserve
calling out of time, monthly maximum or determining the number of credited hours in a month.
NN.MM. “Pay Purposes Only (PPO)” is when a Flight Attendant who is off the entire bid period
may bid in PBS to determine what they could have held for pay purposes only.
OO.NN. “Position” is the area of responsibility in which a Flight Attendant works on an aircraft
identified numerically (1, 2, 3, etc.).
PP.OO. “Positive Space Travel” authorization shall mean that when a Flight Attendant is on a
deadhead flight for the purpose of covering a flying assignment they shall receive a seat on the
flight even if the flight is oversold and shall not be removed from the flight because the flight is
oversold or weight restricted. If a Flight Attendant is on an unscheduled deadhead returning on
their last segment of the sequence, the Flight Attendant will be booked on the next scheduled flight
for which seats are available on either American Airlines or on a carrier whose inventory is
controlled by the Company.
QQ.PP. “Preferential Bidding System (PBS)” as used in this Agreement means an electronic
system used to create Lineholder and Reserve lines of flying.
RR.QQ. “Recurrent Training/Continuous Qualification training (CQ)” is annual FAA required
Recurrent training.
SS.RR. “Red Flagging Open Time” is a sequence flagged by Crew Schedule that will be paid a
premium rate of one hundred and fifty percent (150%) but credited at one hundred percent (100%).
SS. “Relocation Days” is up to five (5) consecutive calendar days free from all duty for the purpose of
relocating for a Flight Attendant awarded a vacancy transfer as specified in Section 22.D.7.
TT. “Reschedule” shall mean any and all deviations from a Flight Attendant’s awarded sequence, as
originally published, except as specified in Scheduling, Section 10.J.1.e.
UU. “Reserve Open Time Assignment/Award (ROTA)” is the system that awards and assigns
sequences, standbys, and RAPs for future operations.
VV. “Reserve Open Time Assignment/Award Daily (ROTD)” is the system that awards aggressive
Reserve bids and assigns sequences and standbys during day-of operations.
UU.WW. “Satellite Operation/Base” as used in this Agreement means an airport served by the
Company and attached to but outside the metropolitan area of a crew base station. Trip sequences
allocated to satellite operations must originate and terminate at the satellite base.

-- 11 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
2-6
VV.XX. “Staffing” is the number of bid positions and the total number of Flight Attendants who will
be assigned to flights based on aircraft type, level of service, variable manning, and Federal
Aviation Regulations (FARs).
WW.YY. “Standby” is a Reserve who has been awarded or assigned Standby duty in uniform at
the airport without a specific flight assignment for the purpose of covering a sequence in order to
prevent a delay. A Standby may also be utilized for the purpose of deplaning, boarding or remaining
with through passengers on the aircraft.
XX.ZZ. “System Irregular Operations (IROPS)” means irregular operations which must be
declared by the Director of Crew Scheduling or their designee. Such declaration must be on a
system-wide basis simultaneously for Flight Attendants and Pilots. System Irregular Operations
will not be declared for staffing needs.
YY.AAA. “Trip Rig” or “Sequence Rig” is a pay and credit guarantee for each trip sequence of
one (1) hour for each three (3) hours and thirty (30) minutes prorated to pay the difference when
the actual flight time is less than the time so credited.
ZZ.BBB. “Trip”, “Trip Sequence” or “Sequence” means a series of flight segments that fall
between report time and release at the crew base.
AAA.CCC. “Trip Hours/Time Away From Base (TAFB)” means all time which is accrued from the
time a Flight Attendant is required to report and check-in one (1) hour (Domestic/NIPD) / one (1)
hour and fifteen (15) minutes (IPD) before scheduled departure at the airport of their crew base or
actual reporting time, whichever is later, prior to proposed flight departure until the time a Flight is
released a minimum of fifteen (15) minutes (Domestic/NIPD) / thirty (30) minutes (NIPD/IPD) after
actual arrival at their crew base for a minimum required rest period. These times The one (1) hour
(Domestic/NIPD) / one (1) hour and thirty (15) minutes (IPD) after the actual arrival shall also apply
to deadheading (by air or surface).
BBB.DDD. “Trip Trade System (TTS)” is a seniority based, automated daily bidding system that
allows Flight Attendants to adjust their monthly schedule.
CCC.EEE. “Turn” means a single duty period sequence which begins and ends at a Flight Attendant’s
crew base.
DDD.FFF. “Union” as used in this Agreement shall mean the Association of Professional Flight
Attendants- APFA.
EEE.GGG. “Unsuccessful Bidder’s List (UBL)” is a list of Lineholders who elect to be passed to
Daily Scheduling because their bid was not awarded in TTS. The Unsuccessful Bidder’s List shall
be used by Crew Scheduling for processing of open time after TTS awards are completed. A Flight
Attendant may elect to be removed from the Unsuccessful Bidder’s List.
HHH. “VEX Days (Vacation Extension)” is a preplanned absence placed before or after at least seven
(7) consecutive vacation days in PBS.

-- 12 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-1
SECTION 3 - COMPENSATION
A. Effective the first day of the bid month following Date of Ratification, a Flight Attendant on the payroll
as a Flight Attendant shall be paid hourly rates as follows for all credited hours:
B. MINIMUM MONTHLY GUARANTEES
1. Each Lineholder shall receive a seventy-one (71) hour guarantee at their hourly rate.
2. A Lineholder who voluntarily gives up a sequence(s) through the provisions of the Electronic
Trade Board (ETB) or the Trip Trade System (TTS) to reduce their credited hours below
seventy-one (71) hours shall have their applicable guarantee reduced accordingly.
3. Each Reserve shall receive a seventy-five (75) hour guarantee at their hourly rate. A Reserve
who is in active status for less than one (1) full month shall have their minimum guarantee
prorated as follows:
Total available Reserve days X 3:56 (31-day month) or 4:10 (30-day month).
4. A Flight Attendant who is in active service for less than one (1) full month shall have their
minimum guarantee prorated as follows:
(Minimum Guarantee) ÷ (total number of days in the bid month) x the number of days on active
status = Prorated Guarantee.
Reserve: 75 ÷ 30-day month = 2.50 75 ÷ 31-day month = 2.42
Lineholder: 71 ÷ 30-day month = 2.37 71 ÷ 31-day month = 2.29
Years of
Service
Effective Date
10/1/2024 10/1/2025
(2.75%)
10/1/2026
(3.0%)
10/1/2027
(3.0%)
10/1/2028
(3.5%)
1st Year $35.82 $36.81 $37.91 $39.05 $40.42
2nd Year $37.97 $39.01 $40.18 $41.39 $42.84
3rd Year $40.40 $41.51 $42.76 $44.04 $45.58
4th Year $43.03 $44.21 $45.54 $46.91 $48.55
5th Year $47.39 $48.69 $50.15 $51.65 $53.46
6th Year $53.67 $55.15 $56.80 $58.50 $60.55
7th Year $59.21 $60.84 $62.67 $64.55 $66.81
8th Year $61.11 $62.79 $64.67 $66.61 $68.94
9th Year $62.80 $64.53 $66.47 $68.46 $70.86
10th Year $65.15 $66.94 $68.95 $71.02 $73.51
11th Year $66.94 $68.78 $70.84 $72.97 $75.52
12th Year $70.12 $72.05 $74.21 $76.44 $79.12
13th Year $82.24 $84.50 $87.04 $89.65 $92.79

-- 13 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-2
C. PURSER, LEAD, AFT AND GALLEY POSITION PREMIUM PAY
Aircraft Type
DOMESTIC INTERNATIONAL
Lead Purser Galley NIPD
Lead
IPD
Purser/
Lead
Galley
B737-800/900 $3.25
$2.50
$3.25
$2.50
A319/A320 $3,25
$2.50
$3.25
$2.50
A321 $3.25 $3.25
A321T $4.75 $5.75* $1.00***
A321XLR $3.25 $1.00 $3.75 $5.75 $2.00**
$1.00**
B777 $3.25 $5.75* $1.00** $6.50 $7.50 $2.00**
$1.00**
B787 $3.25 $1.00 $6.50 $7.50 $2.00**
$1.00**
NOTE: Rates shown are per hour.
All Purser positions require a Purser qualification.
*3-class Transcon only (if non-qualified Purser, premium rate is same as Purser rate).
** One (1) Galley position per class of service, i.e., three (3) class of service – three (3) Galley
positions, two (2) class of service – two (2) Galley positions
***A321T will pay two (2) galley positions on three (3) class of service as provided in the
September 22, 2020 Letter of Agreement (Side Letter L-3).
D. BOARDING PAY
1. A Flight Attendant shall receive boarding pay for each flight segment actually boarded. The
following provisions shall apply:
a. If a Flight Attendant boards a flight and all passengers deplane, the Flight Attendant shall
receive the boarding pay for each boarding.
b. If a flight is boarded and the flight subsequently cancels, the Flight Attendant shall receive
boarding pay for the boarding.
c. A Flight Attendant shall not receive boarding pay if they board a flight while on standby
unless the Flight Attendant actually works the flight segments.
2. Boarding pay will be based on the scheduled boarding times in Section 11, 14 and 18, and
shall be paid for all minutes of the established boarding time for the flight segment. As an
exception, Boarding Pay in Paragraph D., will not apply to boarding as described in Section
18.E.
3. Boarding pay will be paid as pay no credit and shall be equal to one half the Flight Attendant’s
rate of pay as specified in Section 3.A.

-- 14 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-3
D.E. HOLDING TIME
1. A Flight Attendant may be required to remain on duty with passengers on the aircraft at
originating, intermediate, and terminating stations. Such required time on duty shall be
considered “holding time” and shall not be considered as flight time for the purpose of flight
time limitations.
2. At originating and intermediate stations when the ground time exceeds the scheduled
ground time by thirty (30) minutes, a Flight Attendant shall receive seven dollars ($7.00) per
hour or fraction thereof, for all time spent with passengers, excluding ground time.
3. At crew change stations when required to remain with passengers while waiting for replace-
ments beyond forty-five (45) minutes, a Flight Attendant shall receive seven dollars ($7.00)
per hour or fraction thereof.
Holding Time Examples:
Example 1)
Originating flight/originating crew scheduled departure - 0700; actual departure - 0735. A :35
minute holding claim is applicable. The Flight Attendant would receive seven dollars ($7.00)
of ground holding pay.
Example 2)
Through flight/through crew (no posted delay). Scheduled arrival - 0630; actual arrival -
0700; scheduled departure - 0715; actual departure - 0730. No holding claim results from
this example; however, if the actual departure time would have been 0746 then a :31 minute
holding claim would have resulted.
Example 3)
Through flight/through crew (posted delay). Actual arrival - 0700; posted delay in departure
time - 0720; actual departure - 0751. A :31 minute holding claim is applicable, i.e., holding
pay is triggered :31 minutes after the posted departure. The Flight Attendant would receive
seven dollars ($7.00) ground-holding pay.
Example 4)
Through flight/crew change (assuming late arrival of inbound flight). Holding claim triggered
:31 minutes after the posted departure. The Flight Attendant would receive seven dollars
($7.00) of ground-holding pay.
Example 5)
Originating flight/originating crew scheduled departure – 0700; actual departure – 0805. A
1:05 minute holding claim is applicable. The Flight Attendant would receive two (2) hours of
ground holding pay. The Flight attendant would receive fourteen dollars ($14.00) of ground-
holding pay.
E.F. UNDERSTAFFING PAY
Should a flight be dispatched with fewer than the number of Flight Attendants required by the
staffing parameters in Scheduling, Section 10, each Flight Attendant working the flight will be
compensated at the rate of ten dollars and fifty cents ($10.50) per credited hour, prorated to the

-- 15 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-4
nearest minute. In addition, the Flight Attendants operating these flights/sequences may use
expedited service procedures.
F.G. INTERNATIONAL PAY
1. A Flight Attendant on an International Premium Destination (IPD) sequence will receive
International Pay for all operating or deadheading segments scheduled in such sequence.
2. A Flight Attendant will be paid three dollars ($3.00) for each hour or fraction thereof flown,
prorated to the nearest minute, on Non-International Premium Destination (NIPD) flights.
3. A Flight Attendant will be paid three dollars and seventy-five cents ($3.75) for each hour or
fraction thereof flown, prorated to the nearest minute, on IPD sequences.
G.H. JURY DUTY PAY
1. If a Jury Duty summons is submitted to the Company before the PBS awards are final, a
planned absence will be added for the day the Flight Attendant must appear/call in for jury
duty and the following day. The Flight Attendant will receive a daily credit at the rate of four
(4) hours and fifteen (15) minutes pay and credit per day.
2. If a jury duty summons is submitted to the Company after PBS awards are final and such jury
duty assignment conflicts with a scheduled sequence, training day or day of availability, the
Flight Attendant will be paid at the daily rate for the day scheduled to appear/call in for jury
duty and the following day.
3. If the Flight Attendant is required to remain on call or is required to report for jury duty and the
Flight Attendant is on duty or has a sequence conflict, the Flight Attendant will be paid the
daily credit for each day of the jury duty obligation. If a Flight Attendant is required to report
for released from jury duty after 1200, the Flight Attendant shall be eligible for pay protection
at the daily rate for the following day (assuming the sequence that was given up was operated
on such date) but not thereafter.
4. A Lineholder who is serving on jury duty for a full month will be paid to their applicable monthly
maximum. A Reserve serving on jury duty for a full month will be paid on the basis of
sequences missed as described above. In no case would such Reserve be paid and credited
less than their applicable monthly guarantee, and in no case more than their applicable
monthly maximum.
5. If, through any combination of a Flight Attendant’s scheduled duty with the Company and jury
duty, the Flight Attendant is not provided with at least one (1) calendar day off in seven (7),
such Flight Attendant shall have the right to move their scheduled day(s) off as necessary to
provide the required minimum one (1) day off.
H.I. DRUG TESTING
A Flight Attendant will be paid fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each random drug or alcohol test they are
required to undergo after their release from duty. There will be no credit associated with the test
or the payment.
I.J. FOREIGN LANGUAGE SPEAKER PREMIUM PAY
1. A Speaker will be paid at two dollars ($2.00) per hour, prorated to the nearest minute, in
addition to any other pay and applicable premiums, for all credit hours on any flight segment

-- 16 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-5
requiring the Flight Attendant’s language skills. The Speaker premium will apply to all hours
on deadhead flights.
2. International premium of three dollars ($3.00) or three dollars and seventy-five cents ($3.75)
per hour, as applicable, in addition to the Speaker premium of two dollars ($2.00) per hour,
shall apply to International segments for which the Flight Attendant’s language skills are
required.
3. A Speaker, qualified in the language specified for the required Speaker positions on a flight
segment, who is on the flight but not filling a required Speaker position, will be paid two dollars
($2.00) per hour, prorated to the nearest minute, in addition to any other pay and applicable
premiums, for all credit hours on any segment matching the Flight Attendant’s language skills.
J.K. HOLIDAY / INCENTIVE DAY PAY
In addition to all other compensation, a Flight Attendant working on a sequence or serving
Reserve Standby duty, which touches a Holiday Day(s) or Incentive Day shall be paid as follows:
1. Holiday Day(s): The days below shall be designated as Holiday Day(s). Any flying performed
on a designated Holiday Day(s) including a Reschedule (Rescheduled flying performed on a
Holiday Day(s) for a sequence which did not originally touch the Holiday Day(s)), shall pay a
premium of one hundred percent (100%) over the Flight Attendant’s base hourly rate (Holiday
Day(s) premium is paid above guarantee for Reserves) for hours flown (based on the greater
of scheduled or actual hours flown). If either the departure time of the flight (based on local
station time) or the arrival time of the flight (based on local station time) touches or was
scheduled to touch the actual holiday, Holiday Day pay would apply for the entire flight segment
flown. on a Holiday Day(s) and will include flying that crosses over midnight Local Station Time
and touches a Holiday Day(s).
a. Wednesday before Thanksgiving Day
b. Thanksgiving Day
c. Sunday following Thanksgiving Day
d. Monday following Thanksgiving Day
e. December 24/Christmas Eve
f. December 25/Christmas Day
g. December 26/the day following Christmas Day
h. December 31/New Year’s Eve
i. January 1/New Year’s Day
2. Incentive Day(s): The Company may going forward at any time designate a day(s) as an
“Incentive Day”. Any flying performed on an Incentive Day(s), including Reschedule(s)
(Rescheduled flying performed on the Incentive Day for a sequence which did not originally
touch the Incentive Day) shall pay a premium of either fifty percent (50%) or one hundred
percent (100%), as determined by the Company, over the Flight Attendant’s base hourly rate
for hours flown (based on the greater of scheduled or actual hours flown) on the Incentive Day.
(Incentive premium is paid above guarantee for reserves). If either the departure time of the
flight (based on local station time) or the arrival time of the flight (based on local station time)
touches or was scheduled to touch the actual Incentive Day, Incentive Day pay would apply for
the entire flight segment flown. and the Incentive Day will pay an additional fifty percent (50%)
or one hundred percent (100%) incentive pay for hours flown on the Incentive Day) and will
include flying that crosses over midnight Local Station Time and touches an Incentive Day.
3. For any Holiday Day(s) or Incentive Day(s) flight(s) that overlap a Red Flag sequence, the
Holiday Day Pay or Incentive Day pay for the flight(s) will be added to the Red Flag pay (e.g.,
Red Flag is designated as fifty percent (50%) premium for the sequence, and the Holiday Day

-- 17 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-6
pay or Incentive Day pay, as applicable, will pay in addition to the Red Flag pay for hours flown
on the Incentive Day or Holiday Day.
2.4. Holiday Day(s) and Incentive Day percentage increases shall not apply to JCBA Premiums,
e.g., Lead, Galley, International, Speaker, etc.
5. Airport Standby:
a. A Reserve who serves Airport Standby on a Holiday or Incentive Day and is assigned flying
that departs on a non-Holiday or non-Incentive Day will be eligible for Holiday or Incentive
Day premium on the standby shift only.
b. A Reserve who serves Airport Standby on a Holiday or Incentive Day and is assigned flying
that departs on the holiday will be eligible for the Holiday or Incentive Day premium on the
flight time only.
c. A Reserve who serves Airport Standby on a Holiday or Incentive Day and does not fly will
be eligible for the Holiday or Incentive Day premium for the standby shift.
3.6. A Flight Attendant who has no flying on a Holiday Day(s) or Incentive Day who serves Airport
Standby or a report, no fly event will be eligible for the premium pay associated with Incentive
Day(s) or Holiday Day(s).
4.7. Hours All segments flown as part of a scheduled ODAN that is completed in a single duty period
and touches a designated Holiday or Incentive Day will be eligible for the additional pay in
Paragraph 1 or 2 above.
K.L. PREMIUMS FOR PAID TIME OFF
Flight Attendants who are on sick leave, bereavement leave, settling days or jury duty are not
entitled to Purser, Lead, Aft, Galley, Speaker, CRAF or International premiums. Flight Attendants
will receive each applicable Purser, Lead, Aft, Galley, Speaker, CRAF and International pay
premium for vacation hours only if the credit hours in the Flight Attendant’s primary line or PBS
award, as applicable, are inclusive of one hundred percent (100%) of any single premium(s), e.g.,
100% Speaker, 100% Lead, 100%, Aft, etc.
L.M. ATC HO LD/ACTUAL "OUT" TIM E (CO DE 59)
1. Pay and Credit for Delayed Engine Start
When the Captain elects to delay starting engines due to quoted takeoff delays, flight time, at
the option of the Captain, will be considered to begin at the time the aircraft would normally
have departed. Such delay time is not included in block hour limitations as defined in Hours
of Service, Section 11; however, it shall apply for pay and credit purposes and monthly
credited time. Pay and credit under this provision shall not run concurrently with the holding
time compensation as provided in Paragraph E.
2. Actual “Out” Time (Code 59)
In the following delay situations, flight time pay and credit for affected Flight Attendants will
begin prior to the actual out time based on the time established by the Captain as provided
herein, and the affected Flight Attendants will receive the greater of the scheduled block-to-
block time or the delay time plus actual block time. In addition, such delay time will not be
included in the block hour calculations as provided in Hours of Service, Section 11, nor will

-- 18 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-7
flight time pay and credit as defined below, run concurrently with any holding time or ground
time compensations as provided in Paragraph E.
a. In the event of a delay at the gate awaiting pushback, powerback or taxi out due to airport
congestion caused by other aircraft or vehicular traffic, flight time pay and credit will begin
at the time the aircraft was ready for immediate departure in all respects except for
clearance from ramp or ground control, as determined by the Captain.
b. In the event of a delay at the gate caused by the de-icing of the aircraft performed at the
gate, flight time pay and credit will begin at the time the aircraft was ready for immediate
departure in all respects except for clearance from ramp or ground control, as determined
by the Captain.
c. In the event maintenance is performed on the aircraft after departure from the gate but
prior to take-off, and thereafter take-off is performed without returning to the gate, flight
time pay and credit will begin from the original time of departure from the gate, including
the time spent while having maintenance performed. In addition, in the event the aircraft
taxis or is towed from the gate to have maintenance performed and thereafter performs
a take-off without returning to a gate, flight time pay and credit will begin from the original
time of taxi or tow from the gate, including the time spent while having maintenance
performed.
d. In the event of a delay at the gate awaiting pushback, powerback or taxi out due to
congestion with deicing operations off the gate, flight time pay and credit will begin at the
time the aircraft was ready for immediate departure in all respects except for clearance
from ramp or ground control, as determined by the Captain.
M.N. DIVERSION PAY
When a flight is diverted and the aircraft is not blocked in at a gate, and/or passenger egress is
prohibited, each Flight Attendant shall receive full flight time pay and credit for all such time on
board. Such flight time will not be included in the block hour calculation as provided in Hours of
Service, Section 11, nor will flight time pay and credit run concurrently with any holding time or
ground time compensation as provided in Paragraph E.
N.O. MONTHLY METHOD OF PAY
1. Flight Attendants shall be paid semi-monthly (twenty-four (24) pay checks per year) on the
fifteenth (15th) and thirtieth (30th) of each month except as specified in Paragraph O.3.
2. A Flight Attendants’ pay on the thirtieth (30th) of the month shall be equal to thirty-seven and
one-half (37.5) hours (one-half of Reserve Guarantee). The balance of pay due will be paid
on the fifteenth (15th) of the following month.
3. If the thirtieth (30th) pay date falls on a weekend or a banking holiday, the pay date will become
the preceding business day. If the fifteenth (15th) falls on a weekend or banking holiday, the
pay date will become the following business day.
4. Provided the Company continues to distribute Flight Attendant paychecks, pay advices and
payroll summaries via the U.S. Mail, a reasonable effort will be made to place such documents
into the mail system within three (3) days prior to the applicable pay date. Upon an employee’s
request, a stop payment will be placed for any check not received by the third business day
following the pay date. A replacement check or pay card will be issued within forty-eight (48)
hours of a stop payment request.

-- 19 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-8
5. A Flight Attendant may, upon completion of the proper forms provided by the Company, elect
to receive their pay through pay card or direct deposit to the financial institution of the Flight
Attendant’s choice (subject to such financial institution being capable of receiving direct
deposit).
6. The Company reserves the right to mandate electronic pay stubs, pay summaries, direct
deposit, pay cards and W-2s in those states which allow any or all options. Should pay stubs
and summaries be issued electronically, the Company will provide twelve (12) months of
history provided the system allows for the retention of data for twelve (12) months.
7. The Company shall make payroll deductions consistent with the applicable law and the
provisions of Paragraph Q.
O.P. PAY DISCREPANCIES
1. When there is a shortage equivalent to two (2) hours of pay or less in a Flight Attendant’s
paycheck, such amount shall be added to their next check once the matter is resolved.
2. When there is a shortage equivalent to more than two (2) hours of pay but not exceeding
five (5) hours of pay, such amount shall be deposited issued through a special check, if
requested, and mailed to the Flight Attendant’s payroll payment method on file with the
CompanyAttendant by U.S. Mail, within five (5) days following resolution of the matter. Upon
request, the Flight Attendant may make arrangements to pick up a payroll card at a crew base
or a check at the Corporate payroll office.
3. When there is a shortage exceeding five (5) hours of pay in a Flight Attendant’s paycheck,
and once such matter has been resolved, such amount shall a special check or pay card will
be deposited to the Flight Attendant’s payroll payment method on file with the Company within
one (1) day following resolution of the matter issued if requested, and forwarded to the Flight
Attendant by overnight mail, except where the shortage is due to the Flight Attendant’s
negligence or mistake. Upon request, the Flight Attendant may make arrangements to pick
up a payroll card at a crew base or a check at the Corporate payroll office.
4. Paragraph P.3 shall not apply to payroll irregularities of a system or crew base nature involving
multiple employees; however, in such circumstances, the Company will make every
reasonable effort to expedite the necessary corrective action.
P.Q. OVERPAYMENTS
1. If a Flight Attendant is overpaid, their options shall be one of the following:
a. A new check shall be written immediately, or as soon as practicable, unless the Flight
Attendant already cashed the paycheck.
b. Reimburse the Company the total amount that the Flight Attendant was overpaid.
c. Reimburse the Company through payroll deductions equally over two (2) months for
overpayments less than or equal to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) and over four
(4) months for overpayments greater than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00).
2. Upon request of the Flight Attendant, the Company shall meet with them and review the payroll
records substantiating the overpayment.
Q. Flight Attendants shall be transitioned to the payroll schedule specified in this Section. Such
Flight Attendants will be given a minimum of ninety days’ notice prior to the bid month of the

-- 20 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-9
transition. The Company and the Union will meet and discuss an orderly process for the payroll
transition.
R. PROFIT SHARING
1. The terms of profit sharing benefits for APFA represented employees (which replace and
supersede any previous profit sharing provisions) shall be as set forth in this Section R.
2. APFA-represented employees will be eligible for annual profit sharing award payments if, for
the year that the profit sharing award payment is attributable, (i) the employee received eligible
earnings (under the meaning used by the current AAG profit sharing plan) from the Company
for that profit sharing year and (ii) remained employed on the last day of that profit sharing year,
or whose employment terminated during the profit sharing year by reason of the employee’s
retirement, involuntary furlough, disability, or death.
3. For each profit sharing year, the Company will calculate profit sharing award payments as
follows:
a. An amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the dollar amount of American Airlines Group
Inc.’s (“AAG”) Pre-Tax Earnings up to $2.5B for that year, and, an amount equal to twenty
percent (20%) of the dollar amount of AAG’s Pre-Tax Earnings above $2.5B for that year
will be attributed to a profit sharing pool (“Total Profit Sharing Pool”).
b. A percentage of the Total Profit Sharing Pool will be allocated to the eligible APFA-
represented employees by dividing the total eligible earnings of the APFA-represented
employees by the total eligible earnings of all participants in AAG’s profit sharing
program(s) (“APFA Profit Sharing Pool”).
c. The APFA Profit Sharing Pool will be divided by the amount of all the APFA-represented
employees’ eligible earnings, and the resulting quotient shall be the “payout percentage.”
d. The amount of the profit sharing award payment for each APFA-represented employee
who is eligible for a profit sharing award for a profit sharing year shall be the product of the
payout percentage multiplied by such eligible employee’s eligible earnings from the
Company for the applicable profit sharing year.
4. “AAG’s Pre-Tax Earnings” means the earnings of AAG provided that such “earnings” are
determined (i) before any applicable income tax expense, and (ii) by excluding all accruals
under profit sharing plans and any other incentive compensation plan or agreement, and all
extraordinary, unusual, one-time, restructuring, reorganization, integration, reduction in force,
or other similar accounting adjustments as may be determined by the compensation committee
of the Board of Directors in its discretion, after consultation with AAG’s independent auditors;
and provided, further, that AAG’s Pre-Tax Earnings remain positive after accruals under profit
sharing plans and all other incentive compensation plans or agreements are taken into account.
5. Profit sharing award payments shall be considered eligible compensation under the American
Airlines, Inc. 401(K) plan and shall generally be made by March 15 of the subsequent calendar
year or other such date as required by applicable law.
6. The Company retains discretion over all profit sharing related matters not specifically
addressed in this Section.
S. RED FLAG OPEN TIME

-- 21 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
3-10
Crew Scheduling may Red Flag a sequence/position in open time in accordance with Section
10.H. Red Flag sequences shall be paid at a premium rate of one hundred and fifty percent
(150%) but credited at one hundred percent (100%).

-- 22 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
4-1
SECTION 4 - EXPENSES
A. PER DIEM
1. A Flight Attendant shall be paid expenses for meals for each trip hour, prorated to the nearest
minute, in accordance with the following rates:
Effective Date Domestic International
10/1/2024 $2.85 $3.40
10/1/2025 $2.90 $3.45
10/1/2026 $2.95 $3.50
10/1/2027 $3.00 $3.55
10/1/2028 $3.05 $3.60
2. International expenses shall apply to all service to and from International destinations.
Examples:
a. CLT-PHL-BDA: The PHL-BDA segment would pay International expenses.
b. MIA-GIG-MIA: All segments would pay International expenses.
3. A Flight Attendant assigned to training away from their crew base shall be paid expenses for
meals at the above rates per hour for all hours away from the Fight Attendant’s crew base
including the check-in/check-out time for the deadhead to/from Recurrent training.
4. A Flight Attendant awarded or assigned to training at their crew base, shall be paid Per Diem
for all actual hours in training, excluding Distance Learning.
5. Per Diem will not apply to Distance Learning.
6. A Flight Attendant, when away from their crew base at places other than regular system
layover stations, shall be paid reasonable actual expenses for meals or the above rates for
each trip hour, whichever is greater.
7. If a Flight Attendant is assigned a trip while on Reserve Standby, the Flight Attendant shall
receive Per Diem from the commencement of Reserve Standby until the Flight Attendant is
released in their crew base at the end of the assigned sequence.
B. SPECIAL
1. A Flight Attendant assigned by the Company to duty away from their crew base on a temporary
or special basis, such as recruitment or publicity/promotional assignments, shall be
reimbursed for all reasonable actual expenses incurred, substantiated by receipts when
required.
2. If such duty assignment is to exceed seven (7) nights, the Company will advance the Flight
Attendant reasonable estimated expenses. Such a request must be made in writing to Inflight
at least five (5) business days before the scheduled departure. If the Flight Attendant is given
less than five (5) business days’ notice of the assignment, the Flight Attendant may request
an advance and shall receive the advance as soon as practicable. For an assignment of less
than seven (7) days, the Company shall consider issuing the advance on a case by case
basis.

-- 23 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
4-2
C. CREW MEALS
1. Crew meals will be provided to Flight Attendants working an International Premium
Destination (IPD) sequence originating at PHL and/or CLT. Such meals will be the same as
those provided to the Pilots working the flight.
2.1. Crew meals will be provided when the flight time (block hours) is scheduled to exceed twelve
(12) hours. Such crew meals on these flights will consist of the following:
a. Long-Range:
Business Class Entrée/First Class Bulk Salad/Main Cabin Follow-On
b. Extended Long Range:
Business Class Entrée/First Class Bulk Salad with Main Cabin tray set-up
Main Cabin Entree with Main Cabin tray set-up
D. PARKING
1. All Flight Attendants, local based and commuting, shall receive a Company paid parking
permit at:
a. such Flight Attendant’s base; or
b. American Airlines or its wholly owned carriers’ station of the Flight Attendant’s choice.
c. At base stations with multiple airports, stickers or permits may be issued for one (1) or all
locations upon request. If insufficient permits are available to provide one for each Flight
Attendant desiring them, permits will be assigned in system seniority order at each
issuance date.
2. To the extent that a Flight Attendant does not receive a permit as provided in Paragraph D.1,
the Company will reimburse the Flight Attendant for parking expenses up to the amount of the
cost of such permits at the Flight Attendant’s base. For example, a Flight Attendant is based
at DFW and desires a parking permit at SAN. Permits are not available at SAN. The Flight
Attendant is entitled to be reimbursed for parking expenses up to an amount equal to the cost
of parking permits at the Flight Attendant’s base, which is DFW.
3. To the extent that a Flight Attendant desires to purchase a second parking permit, such
purchase will be permitted. The Company will pay for the less expensive of the two (2) permits
that the Flight Attendant receives. For example, a MIA based Flight Attendant has a DFW
permit, but also desires a MIA parking permit. The Flight Attendant can obtain both permits,
and the Company will pay for the less expensive of the two (2).
4. The Flight Attendant shall make the election to change their parking allowance upon changing
crew bases or residence of record.
5. Claim Form Submittal
In accordance with Company policy, expense claims must be submitted within sixty (60) days
of the occurrence.

-- 24 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
5-1
SECTION 5 - MOVING EXPENSES
A. QUALIFYING FOR EXPENSES
The Company shall provide a paid move from a Flight Attendant’s residence under the following
circumstances:
1. Original vacancies upon opening of a new crew base or reestablished crew base, or new
vacancies created within the first twelve (12) months after crew base opening.
2. Crew base closure.
3. Displacements from crew bases for any reason.
4. A Flight Attendant recalled to a crew base other than the crew base from which they were
furloughed shall be paid moving expenses if the Flight Attendant accepts the first recall to
which they are eligible.
5. If a Flight Attendant on a leave of absence, or any inactive status, would have otherwise been
entitled to a paid move, the Flight Attendant will be entitled to such a paid move upon return
to active status. Time on a leave of absence in excess of thirty (30) days will not be counted
for purposes of the three (3) year time limit as specified in Paragraph E.1.
B. ALLOWABLE EXPENSES
Moving expenses for Paragraph A shall be arranged and paid for by the Company in accordance
with the following:
1. Reasonable actual moving expenses (not to exceed one hundred and ten percent (110%) of
mover’s estimate) for household and personal effects up to sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds
excluding boats, boat trailers, camping and utility trailers that cannot be transported in the
mover’s van, lumber, cordwood and similarly unusual items.
2. Covered expenses will include the cost of packing, crating, unpacking, disconnection and
reconnection of appliances (appliances will consist of the following: stove, microwave,
convection oven, washer, dryer, refrigerator, television and antenna, computer equipment
[excluding ISP], deep freeze and air conditioner).
3. Movement of more than sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds will be considered on an individual
basis.
4. Storage reimbursement up to thirty (30) days.
5. Insurance up to three dollars and fifty cents ($3.50) per pound.
6. Expenses for vehicle moving shall be paid at twenty-five cents ($0.25) per mile for one (1) or
two (2) vehicles, provided they are registered in the name of the Flight Attendant, Flight
Attendant’s spouse, domestic partner and/or Flight Attendant’s dependent(s), for a distance
no greater than the shortest American Auto Association mileage between crew bases from
which and to which the Flight Attendant is being transferred. Expenses will be provided as
specified in Paragraph D.6. Such car(s) must be moved within one hundred and eighty (180)
days of the move of household effects to be eligible for reimbursement under this provision.
Verification of travel must be provided, using either dated gas or toll receipts. or service station

-- 25 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
5-2
odometer vouchers. Reimbursement for parking and tolls will be provided if substantiated by
receipts. If the distance between crew bases is greater than one thousand and two hundred
(1,200) miles, the Flight Attendant may elect to ship up to two (2) vehicles by car carrier. The
total number of vehicles covered under either option shall not exceed two (2).
7. A Flight Attendant who resides in a single unit mobile home will receive, in lieu of the
movement of household goods in Paragraphs B.1 and B.3, reasonable actual expenses
including, but not limited to the cost of packing household goods within the unit and unblocking
at the present location and blocking and unpacking household goods at the new location, and
insurance for the transport of such mobile home. Such Flight Attendant will be eligible for all
other expenses specified in this Section. The Company will pay for normal hook up of gas
and/or electricity excluding any deposit requirements or rewiring of utility lines to the mobile
home location. The Flight Attendant is responsible for road-worthy conditions, necessary road
repairs and compliance with state and local laws.
8. In the event a Flight Attendant who qualifies for a paid move in accordance with this Section
must break their lease, the Company shall reimburse the Flight Attendant for lease
cancellation fees and for up to one (1) month’s rent and the non-refundable security deposit
provided the Flight Attendant does not renew the lease beyond the lease expiration date in
effect on the effective date of the displacement. To obtain reimbursement, the Flight Attendant
must attach the following documents to the relocation reimbursement form submitted to the
Company:
a. Copy of the original lease;
b. Copy of the letter notifying the landlord of the intention to terminate the lease;
c. Written confirmation from the landlord outlining the fees collected for lease cancellation.
9. The Company will not reimburse penalties or expenses incurred as a result of the following:
forfeiture of deposit for damages or other causes, failure to provide the landlord with written
notice of intent to vacate, damage, repair, or vacating condition requirements.
C. HOUSE FINDING FOR COMPANY PAID MOVES
A Flight Attendant will be given passes in accordance with the Company’s Relocation policy.
D. SETTLING DAYS
1. Upon request, the Company shall provide eligible a Flight Attendants as set forth in Paragraph
A.1-5 with up to five (5) consecutive calendar days free of all duty, the first three (3) days
requested of which shall be paid and credited at the value of a duty period minimum day as
specified in Hours of Service, Section 11, for the purpose of relocating. The three (3) paid
and credited settling days will be designated as preplanned work days in PBS. The two (2)
remaining unpaid and uncredited settling days, if requested, will be designated as preplanned
reserve days in PBS and will reduce guarantee by the reserve daily rate. The three (3) paid
and credited reserve days and the two (2) unpaid reserve days, if requested, will not count
toward the reserve minimum days off in the bid period. A Flight Attendant claiming settling
days will not be eligible for any premium pay. A Lineholder shall not be responsible for making
up any lost time due to trips missed that were dropped from the Flight Attendant’s line,
including any adjustments made prior to the award of settling days.
2. For a Flight Attendant without a PBS award, The request for settling days pursuant to
Paragraph D.1 must be made in advance to Crew Planning and the Company will honor the

-- 26 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
5-3
five (5) days requested by the Flight Attendant, provided adequate reserve coverage is
available on such days.
3. Such settling days shall be subject to black-out dates for holidays and the day immediately
preceding and following the holiday defined for the purpose of this Paragraph as New Year’s
Day, Memorial Day, 4th of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, and Christmas Day.
3.4. In the event the Company is able to grant the settling days requested by the Flight Attendant,
payment for such settling days will be in accordance with Paragraph D.1.
4.5. In the event the Company is unable to grant the specific settling days requested by the Flight
Attendant, alternate settling days will be provided as close to the days initially requested by
the Flight Attendant, and settling expenses as specified in Paragraph D.6 will be paid until
such five (5) consecutive calendar days free from all duty are given.
5.6. Settling and en-route expenses will consist of reasonable actual expenses, when
substantiated by receipts for a Flight Attendant and their family members incurred for meals,
lodging and telephone calls. Extraordinary expenses will be allowed as circumstances
indicate.
6. The provisions of Paragraphs D.1 through D.5 shall not be utilized to reduce subsequent days
off.
E. GENERAL
The payment of moving expenses shall be subject to the following conditions:
1. The move must be completed within three (3) years of the effective date of the transfer. The
date of the move will be the date the mover loads the household effects where the move
originates.
2. The Flight Attendant’s new residence (as defined in Paragraph H) must be located within two
hundred (200) miles of the Flight Attendant’s new crew base. If another employee group is
allowed greater than two hundred (200) miles, the greater distance will be extended to Flight
Attendants.
3. The distance between the Flight Attendant’s old residence and the new residence must be the
lesser of fifty (50) miles or fifty percent (50%) of the distance between the crew base from
which and to which the Flight Attendant is being transferred.
4. A Flight Attendant who has been granted a Company paid move prior to the date of signing
of this Agreement shall be governed by the provisions of the applicable collective bargaining
agreement in effect at the time the Flight Attendant became eligible for the Company paid
move.
5.4. When mutually agreeable, the above limitations may be extended due to unusual
circumstances.
6.5. In the event a Flight Attendant becomes eligible for moving expenses under this Section more
than one time prior to exercising their right to expenses for the first event triggering such
eligibility, then such Flight Attendant may receive expenses for no more than one (1) move
under this Section. When such Flight Attendant elects to move, the Flight Attendant shall
notify the Company which of the displacement events for which they are eligible in accordance
with Paragraph A shall be used for expense reimbursement under Paragraph E.

-- 27 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
5-4
F. VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS
A Flight Attendant transferring transferred from one crew base to another at their own request
or as a result of a priority return will bear their own expenses, except free available space on
Company transportation facilities for the shipping of personal belongings shall be furnished to
the extent permitted by law.
1. Upon Flight Attendant request, the Company shall provide a Flight Attendant who voluntarily
transfers to another crew base with five (5) consecutive calendar days free of all duty for the
purpose of relocating. Such settling days shall be provided subject to coverage requirements,
but shall not be subject to payment for time lost or any expenses incurred.
G. NEW HIRES
1. The Company shall provide a Flight Attendant with five (5) consecutive calendar days free from
duty, three (3) days of which shall be paid and credited at the value of a duty day period
minimum day as specified in Hours of Service, Section 11, for the purpose of relocating.
2. Upon completion of initial Flight Attendant training and until five (5) consecutive settling days,
as provided in Paragraph D.1 are completed, the Company shall provide Flight Attendants with
the following:
a. Acceptable hotel accommodations in accordance with Crew Accommodations, Section 6.
b. Per Diem at the applicable rate provided in Expenses, Section 4. The foregoing Per Diem
shall be offset by Per Diem paid while on duty.
3. Settling days and base indoctrination shall not be included as available days when calculating
a new hire Flight Attendant’s remaining monthly day(s) free from duty pursuant to Section
10.D.18.d.
H. DEFINITIONS
“Residence” shall mean residential property occupied by the Flight Attendant and will not apply to
commercial property, vacation property, or unimproved property. Residential property for purposes
of this paragraph shall mean urban, suburban, or rural property that the Flight Attendant occupies
as their residence. Any crops, livestock, implements, or commercial undertakings that may be
associated or contained on such premises will not be subject to these provisions. Further, when a
commercial enterprise is an integral part of the Flight Attendant’s residence or the property on
which it is situated, these provisions will not apply.

-- 28 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
6-1
SECTION 6 - CREW ACCOMMODATIONS
A. APFA HOTEL COMMITTEE
1. A Hotel Transportation Committee, made up of representatives of the APFA and the
Company, will be established and shall meet as needed to review and resolve all Flight
Attendant feedback relating to lodging accommodations and transportation for Flight
Attendants.
2. Guidelines for the selection of hotels and transportation shall include the safety and security
of the transportation vehicles, rooms and hotel locations; the cleanliness and quietness of the
accommodations, and the adequacy of the eating facilities. The following procedures will be
used in the selection of hotel accommodations and associated transportation:
a. The APFA's National Hotel Chair, and/or their designee(s), will meet quarterly with the
representatives of the Company, or more frequently, if needed, to review the suitability of
hotel accommodations and associated transportation for Flight Attendants. The parties
intend that the APFA's National Hotel Department representative(s) be given the
opportunity to consult with and make recommendations to the Company on the selection
and suitability of accommodations and associated transportation.
b. When changing or selecting accommodations, the Company will prepare a list of hotels
being considered and provide such list to the APFA. If requested, the Company will also
provide a list of all companies from whom bids were requested and all companies who
submitted bids. Lists provided to the APFA will not include any details or pricing
information. The APFA will have the opportunity to add facilities to the list of those being
considered. The parties will jointly inspect the proposed facilities (including any added to
the list by the APFA). The Company will provide the APFA with a minimum of fifteen (15)
ten (10) days’ notice of any city or cities to be reviewed.
c. The Company will consider all recommendations of the APFA and then select the facility
to be used from those that are mutually acceptable to the Company and the APFA. It is
the intent of the parties that representatives of the Company and the APFA's National
Hotel Department reach agreement on the selection of the hotel accommodations. If,
however, there are no mutually acceptable facilities, the Company and the APFA National
President, or their designee, will meet to attempt to agree on a facility. If the Company
and the APFA National President, or their designee, cannot reach agreement, the
Company will make the final determination.
d. If the Company receives a report from the APFA's National Hotel Department of a problem
with a facility or associated transportation arrangement, the Company will promptly
investigate the reported problem and respond to the APFA within fifteen (15) calendar
days on the results of its investigation and the actions being taken to resolve the problems
that are confirmed by the Company.
e. Subject to the limitations of Paragraph A.2.b, the Company and the APFA National Hotel
Department will make available to each other all information reasonably calculated to
assist in decisions regarding hotel accommodations, including but not limited to any
reports received from Flight Attendants.
3. The Company will make every effort to avoid delays in room assignments at all hotels.
4. The APFA Hotel Committee Chairperson, or their designee, shall be released from duty to
inspect any hotels contemplated under this Section. When the Company requests that an

-- 29 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
6-2
APFA Committee member conduct hotel inspections in lieu of sending a Company
representative, any pay lost because of the release from duty shall be paid by the Company.
Otherwise, the APFA shall be responsible for the Hotel Committee member’s flight pay loss.
and the Hotel Committee member shall be provided with positive space on-line transportation
to conduct the hotel inspection. Otherwise, the Union shall be responsible for the Hotel
Committee member’s flight pay loss. The Company shall provide positive space transportation
for one (1) APFA Hotel Committee member for all hotel inspections. If on-line travel is not
available to the destination, positive space on-line travel will be provided to a location that
allows for a connection. If an on-line connection is not available, interline travel will be
arranged in accordance with Company policy.
B. LODGING
1. The Company shall provide a comfortable, safe and clean single occupancy hotel room to a
Flight Attendant when:
a. a Flight Attendant has a scheduled or unscheduled layover;
b. scheduled ground time exceeds four (4) hours (block-to-block);
c. unscheduled ground time is projected to exceed four (4) hours (block-to-block);
d. on an “On-Duty All-Nighter (ODAN) sequence with ground time of four (4) hours or more,
block-to-block, the room will be scheduled when the sequence is constructed.
2. A Flight Attendant on a sequence containing an ODAN duty sequence shall be provided
overnight accommodations at an airport hotel if one exists and provided such property is
consistent with the comparable properties used for short overnights. If an airport hotel is not
available, the Company shall work with the APFA Hotel Committee to select a suitable hotel
for such ODANs as close to the airport as possible.
3. In selecting hotels, the Company and the APFA Hotel Committee shall consider the following:
a. Hotels with twenty-four (24) hour restaurants or room service with discounted crew menus
or twenty-four (24) hour transportation service to nearby restaurants;
b. Hotels with rooms for Flight Attendants as follows: on the second or higher floor, on the
same floor, with queen or king-size beds, with doors that open to an indoor hallway and
are removed from elevators, ice machines, and other noise sources, and have effective
sound-proofing; are away from stairwells and emergency exit doors; with effective
blackout curtains, self-controlled quiet heating and air conditioning systems and on non-
smoking floors (individual crew members may request to be assigned to smoking rooms
based on availability);
c. Availability of a separate crew sign-in sheet and crew rooms that will be immediately
available upon arrival of the crew;
d. Hotels with unblocked telephones, free local calls, no charge for making toll-free calls and
no long-distance access charges, free hairdryers, coffee-makers, irons, and ironing-
boards and refrigerators.
e. Free in-room high-speed or Wi-Fi internet access;
f. Safe and secure transportation for the crew members and their luggage;

-- 30 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
6-3
g. Hotels with adequate guest security;
h. Hotels with exercise facilities;
i. Responsiveness to concerns raised;
j. Problems with current renovation or construction; and,
k. Non-stop transportation to and from the airport.
4. In the event that regularly assigned lodging is not available or if the crew is diverted to other
than the scheduled layover, the Company shall provide other like lodging. If the Company is
not able to secure like lodging, the Flight Attendant will be allowed reasonable, actual
expenses for other like lodging, substantiated by a receipt.
5. Compensation for Hotel Delays
a. In the event of a schedule modification (reschedule, cancellation or other schedule change)
which necessitates a hotel room, the Company will provide a hotel assignment. If the
Company fails to notify the Flight Attendant of a hotel assignment within one (1) hour from
the later of block-in at actual layover city or schedule modification in accordance with the
timelines set forth in Section 10.J.3.d or 10.J.4.c, the Flight Attendant shall be paid at the
rate of one hundred and fifty percent (150%) and credited at one hundred percent (100%)
for the duty period preceding the layover. If the Company fails to notify the Flight Attendant
of a hotel assignment within three (3) hours from the later of block-in at actual layover city
or schedule modification in accordance with the timelines set forth in Section 10.J.3.d or
10.J.4.c, the Flight Attendant shall be paid at the rate of one hundred and fifty percent
(150%) and credited at one hundred percent (100%) for the entire sequence instead of the
duty period.
b. A Flight Attendant who is eligible for the pay in the above Paragraph and subsequently
secures a hotel room either on their own or through the Company will receive the pay
specified above, as applicable, for either the entire duty period or the entire sequence but
not both.
6. If APFA identifies issues with hotel assignments or transportation (e.g., incidents of
unreasonable failures or delays in hotel provision or transportation), the APFA’s National Hotel
Chair may request to meet to discuss the concerns. If the parties determine a problem exists,
the Company will develop a plan to address the issue(s).
7. If a hotel with an existing contract informs the Company it is planning oris undergoing
renovation or construction, the Company shall notify the APFA Hotel Committee. The APFA
Hotel Committee and the Company will, upon request of the APFA, meet to determine the
suitability of the hotel in situations where the construction/renovation interferes with crew rest
or safety.
8. Flight Attendants will be offered the same hotel list as Pilots unless the APFA Hotel Committee
objects to a particular hotel, in which case Paragraph B.3 will apply.
9. The Company agrees to meet with APFA within ninety (90) days of ratification to discuss the
possible development of a hotel gainsharing program.
C. TRANSPORTATION

-- 31 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
6-4
1. The Company shall provide transportation at all layover stations.
2. At points other than the Flight Attendant’s crew base, where the Company’s scheduled or
prearranged transportation is not available within twenty (20) minutes after such is requested
by the Flight Attendant, the Flight Attendant will be authorized to take alternate transportation
to the hotel. On overnights scheduled for less than ten (10) hours and thirty (30) minutes,
transportation shall be available within ten (10) minutes and the twenty (20) minute wait set
forth above shall not apply.
a. The expense for the transportation shall be paid by the hotel, or
b. If the hotel refuses to pay for alternate transportation, the Flight Attendant shall pay for
the transportation and be reimbursed by the Company or the Company may provide a cab
voucher.
c. Reimbursement shall be made on the paycheck containing the pay exceptions for the
month following the submission of the expense. The Company may require receipts to be
submitted from a Flight Attendant seeking reimbursement.
3. When authorized by Crew Scheduling, actual expenses for round-trip cab transportation within
a ninety (90) minute radius of the airport will be allowed when substantiated by appropriate
receipts when a Flight Attendant is called to duty, and agrees to report with less than two (2)
hours’ notice prior to the scheduled departure of a flight (or three (3) hours’ notice for co-
terminal). Exceptions will be considered on an individual basis. In lieu of cab transportation,
the Company will reimburse reasonable expenses for short-term parking (i.e., daily parking if
available; if not available, hourly parking).
4. At a crew base, a Flight Attendant will be allowed actual transportation charges substantiated
by receipts if the flight on which they are assigned terminates between 2300 and 0600 as a
result of late operation.
5. At a crew base where there is an employee bus service scheduled, a Flight Attendant will be
allowed actual parking charges for a non-premium public parking area when substantiated by
a receipt if the employee bus transportation is not available (not scheduled to operate) during
periods when flights terminate or originate including the reporting period.
D. GENERAL
1. A Flight Attendant will not be required to provide a credit card in order to check-in to the hotel.
2. Each Flight Attendant shall pay for any incidental charges (e.g., telephone calls, in-room
movie rental, etc.) prior to checking out of the hotel. All expenses (e.g., restaurant, lounge,
room service, laundry/dry cleaning, etc.) must be paid at the time the services are rendered
unless credit arrangements have been individually established by the Flight Attendant with the
hotel upon check-in. It is the Flight Attendant’s responsibility to resolve any discrepancies in
incidental charges at the time of check-out.
3. Hotels, hotel phone numbers, van/limo service providers and van/limo service phone numbers
will be listed in the bid packet and the Crew Management System. In the event there is a
change in layover accommodations, the Flight Attendant shall be notified of the change as
soon as possible. A Reserve Flight Attendant who has been advised to proceed directly to the
gate area for a trip shall be notified of their crew accommodations and van/limo service
provider prior to departure.

-- 32 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
6-5
4. The Company shall arrange for crew hotels to provide an appropriate crew meal on
Thanksgiving, Christmas Day and New Year’s Day, in the event on-site or local restaurants
are closed.
5. Crew Schedule will not release information to third parties concerning the Flight Attendant’s
schedule unless authorized by the Flight Attendant. The Flight Attendant is responsible for
providing hotel locations and phone numbers to their family members. In cases of emergency,
Crew Schedule will relay messages to Flight Attendants as soon as possible.
6. If a Flight Attendant chooses not to stay at their assigned hotel, they must electronically notify
the Company advise Crew Schedule no later than one (1) hour after the release time of the
duty period and must provide a contact number where they can be reached. The Company
This provision will provide a confirmation receipt only apply to destinations outside the
contiguous United States as long as a toll-free number is provided for those destinations. If a
toll-free number is not provided, the Flight Attendant must notify another crew member on the
sequence.
7. A Flight Attendant assigned to the same hotel for two (2) or three (3) consecutive nights must
check-in and out daily prior to a commencing a duty period, except while on a TDY
assignment.
E. FLIGHT ATTENDANT CREW LOUNGES
1. The Company shall provide a crew lounge at each crew base.
2. The crew lounge at each crew base shall be clean, properly lighted, properly heated and air
conditioned, well ventilated, and contain chairs, tables, computers, wi-fi and telephones.
3. The Company will consult with the APFA Base President Union Hotel Committee when
establishing a new Flight Attendant lounge or making a major change to an existing Flight
Attendant lounge.

-- 33 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
7-1
SECTION 7 - UNIFORMS
A. A newly employed Flight Attendant will be required to purchase one her/his initial set of required
STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX certified, or comparable certification, uniform items for the gender
with which the Flight Attendant identifies::
1. FEMALE – REQUIRED UNIFORM LIST
• BlazersJackets (2) (can select 1 Short Sleeve & Long Sleeve Blazer or 2 Long Sleeve
Blazers) Jacket (1)
• Short Sleeve Blazer or Vest (1)
• Sweaters (2) (Choice of Button Cardigan and/or Heavyweight Sweater)Shell)
• Bottoms (4)
o (Choice of Skirts, Pants (Classic or Slim)
o Skirts (A-Line or Wrap)
o Dresses (Shirtone-piece Dress, Short or Long Sleeve) (Maximum of 2 dressesif
applicable)
• Blouses Tops (5) (Choice of Long and Short Sleeve Shirt)Shirts or Dress Top)
• Serving Garment (2)
• Leather Belt with Buckle (1)
• Neckwear/Scarfs (2)
• All-Weather Coat (1) **
• Wool Topper Coat (optional)**
• Winter Scarf (optional)**
Lightweight Raincoat (1) **
• Flight Tote Bag (1)
• Luggage (1) 22-inch Expandable Rollaboard
• Wings (2) *
• Name Tag (1)
2. MALE – REQUIRED UNIFORM LIST
BlazerJackets (2)
• Sweaters (2) (Choice of Button Cardigan and/or Heavyweight Sweater Mock Turtleneck)
• Vest (1)
• Pants (4) (Classic Flat Front or Slim Flat Front) Trousers (4)
• Shirts (5) (Choice of Long and Short Sleeve Shirts, Classic or Slim Fit))
• Tie (2) (clip-on optional)
• Serving Garment (2)
• Leather Belt with Buckle (1)
• All-Weather Coat (1) **
• Wool Car Coat (optional) **
• Winter Scarf (optional)**
Lightweight Raincoat (1) **
• Flight Tote Bag (1)
• Luggage (1) 22-inch Expandable Rollaboard
• Wings (2) *
• Name Tag (1)
*The initial sets of wings and name tags, required to be worn by a Flight Attendant will be
furnished by the Company at no cost. Damaged wings and/or name tags will be replaced by
the Company at no cost.

-- 34 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
7-2
**Eligible for replacement in accordance with 7.D.3.b and 7.E.1. The parties may mutually
agree to substitute an All Season Coat for the All Weather Coat and Lightweight Raincoat
B. Any additional required item(s) required by the Company as part of the uniform shall be
incorporated into the Required Uniform List(s).
C. Additional items not considered as required items may be approved uniform items and may be
available for purchase and not eligible for replacement. A Flight Attendant at their option may use
“uniform dollars” to buy additional items.
D. UNIFORM DOLLARS
1. A Flight Attendant will earn uniform dollars based on the number of paid hours in the previous
calendar year to be used in the subsequent year. Each January, beginning in January 2017
the Company will credit Flight Attendant uniform dollars based on the following scale:
Paid Hours Uniform Dollars
More than 960 $250
721 - 960 $225
481 - 720 $175
200 - 480 $125
Less than 200 $0
2. Any unused uniform dollars will roll over to the following year to be used for items in Paragraph
A, excluding Paragraph D.3.
3. The Company will pay for the replacement of the following items for normal wear and tear.
a. Luggage will be eligible for replacement at no cost to the Flight Attendant every three (3)
years.
b. A coat(s) will be eligible for replacement at no cost to the Flight Attendant every five (5)
years.
c. Replacements prior to timeframes described in 3.a. and b above on a case-by-case basis.
E. UNIFORM REPLACEMENT
1. In the event of a complete or partial change, the Company will pay for the replacement of the
applicable Required Uniform Items listed in Paragraph A.
2. The Company shall bear all shipping costs (delivery/return) for the purchase or replacement
of items on the Required Uniform List.
3. Serving garments and overnight bags will be furnished on a loan basis, if needed, while the
Flight Attendant obtains a replacement.
4. In the event a Flight Attendant who has received a replacement item terminates their
employment, such items shall be returned to the Company.
F. Reasonable uniform alteration costs, with the submission of a receipt, will be reimbursed by the
Company.

-- 35 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
7-3
G. During periods of uniform changeover, commensurate with the adequacy of facilities, the Company
will do all possible to have the Flight Attendant uniform fittings accomplished at the Flight
Attendant's home base airport.
H. The Company will provide loan two (2) maternity uniforms to a pregnant Flight Attendant who is
unable to wear their regular uniform. Such Flight Attendant may choose from available maternity
outfits., e.g., tops, slacks, or dress. Maternity uniforms shall be returned to the Company cleaned
and pressed within sixty (60) days after the commencement of the maternity leave of absence.
Absent mitigating circumstances such as bed rest recommended by a physician, if a Flight
Attendant does not return the maternity uniforms by the deadline and in the condition specified, the
cost of the uniforms will be payroll deducted. The Flight Attendant shall retain will be notified in
writing of this uniform to wear requirement at the time the leave commences. The Company will
make maternity blouses available for a future pregnancy(s). purchase.
I. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to wear a hat as part of the uniform.
J. A Flight Attendant on an International flight will wear the same uniform as a Flight Attendant on a
Domestic flight unless mutually agreed otherwise. A Flight Attendant may be required to wear a tie
or neckwear.
K. A Flight Attendant must wear the prescribed uniform at all times when on duty, except a Flight
Attendant shall not be required to wear their uniform when deadheading. A deadheading Flight
Attendant must comply with Company regulations with regard to non-revenue attire. in the
applicable class of service.
L. A Flight Attendant will be allowed to wear the current APFA emblem or pin on their uniform while
on duty.
M. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to display their last name on any part of the uniform,
including serving garment or any other visible part of the uniform, except as required by federal
regulations. The wings will not include the Flight Attendant’s name, unless mutually agreed by
Company and the APFA Contract Chairperson or their designee.
N. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to wear a shoe with more than a one-inch heel at any time
while in uniform and shall be allowed to wear a flat-soled shoe in the cabin. Exceptions to the shoe
policy will require medical documentation.
O. A Flight Attendant may wear a short sleeve shirt year-round. The wearing of jackets may be
required.
P. A Flight Attendant who has a uniform item, Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) manual or Company ID
stolen or damaged while on duty shall, upon prompt submission of a claim to their
supervisor/manager within twenty-four (24) hours of release from duty in crew base, have such
item(s) replaced at no cost to the Flight Attendant provided the investigation results in the Flight
Attendant being absolved of negligence. Items stolen or damaged while the Flight Attendant is not
on duty will be handled on a case by case basis.
Q. PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNIFORMS ITEMS
1. The initial uniform purchase shall be payroll deducted in increments not to exceed twenty-five
dollars ($25.00 20.00) per paycheck. for the first twelve (12) months. The deduction will
increase to fifty dollars ($50.00) until the balance is less than four hundred dollars ($400.00),
and then will revert to twenty dollars ($20.00) per paycheck. The Flight Attendant may elect
to deduct a greater amount.

-- 36 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
7-4
2. A Flight Attendant may have any subsequent uniform purchases payroll deducted. The
following restrictions apply:
a. Minimum purchase eligible for payroll deduction: twenty-five dollars ($25.00);
b. Maximum balance due on account: three hundred dollars ($300.00), except a newly
employed Flight Attendant shall be permitted to deduct the entire cost of the initial required
uniform items;
c. Minimum Maximum amount to be deducted per paycheck: twenty-five dollars ($25.00
20.00). The Flight Attendant may elect to deduct a greater amount.
3. Flight Attendants will be provided with an invoice detailing the cost of each uniform item
deducted from their paycheck. The cost to the Flight Attendant shall be no more than the cost
to the Company, except for extra items that are available to the public for purchase.
R. UNION UNIFORM COMMITTEE
1. The Company shall meet with the APFA Uniform Committee to discuss any anticipated major
changes in style, color, material, or substantial cost increase of uniforms. The
recommendations of this committee, the APFA, the weather conditions, and workloads shall
be taken into consideration. Except as specifically provided in Section 7, the Company
reserves the right to make all final uniform change decisions.
2. The APFA Uniform Committee Chairperson and/or their designee shall be allowed to attend
meetings or presentations, and any Company initiated manufacturing facility tour with any
potential uniform vendors scheduled as part of the selection process. The Company shall
consider the APFA Uniform Committee’s recommendations before changing uniform vendors.
The Company will work with the APFA Uniform Committee to expeditiously resolve concerns
over uniform designs/manufacturing defects.

-- 37 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
8-1
SECTION 8 - VACATION
A. VACATION ACCRUAL
1. A Flight Attendant will be eligible for vacation accrual, subject to the completion of their
probationary period, according to the years of service completed as a Flight Attendant and
number of months of active service as a Flight Attendant in the preceding year as follows:
Years of Active
Service Days per Year
1-4 7 days
5 10 days
6 12 days
7-9 14 days
10-12 18 days
13-15 21 days
16-17 23 days
18-25 31 days
26 + 35 days
2. A Flight Attendant who completes less than twelve (12) months of active service in the
preceding year shall have their vacation accrual prorated.
3. Vacation will be accrued for each contractual month during which the Flight Attendant is on
active status for at least fifteen (15) calendar days. As an exception, a Flight Attendant on
active status for less than fifteen (15) calendar days in a contractual month will accrue vacation
if a minimum of forty (40) hours of pay and credit are achieved during the month.
B. VACATION PAY AND CREDIT
1. Vacation days bid in the annual vacation process in blocks of seven (7) or more consecutive
days will be paid and credited at four (4) hours per day at the Flight Attendant’s rate of pay.
Vacation days in blocks of less than seven (7) consecutive days will be paid at four (4) hours
and credited at three and one-half (3.5) hours per day. Vacation pay and credit shall be based
on a Flight Attendant’s longevity at the time the vacation is taken.
2. Premium pay (Lead, Purser, Aft, Galley, Speaker, International and CRAF) will be paid to a
Flight Attendant on vacation as specified in Compensation, Section 3.
C. VACATION BIDDING
1. A Flight Attendant must bid vacation in periods of four (4) or more consecutive days, provided
that a Flight Attendant may bid one (1) block of either one (1), two (2) or three (3) consecutive
days per year. There shall be no limit on the number of vacation days a Flight Attendant may
bid in a month.
2. Primary Vacation Bid

-- 38 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
8-2
a. A Flight Attendant shall complete and file their preference for vacation periods up to the
maximum of the Flight Attendant’s accrual on or before March 7th based on their accrual
the previous calendar year. The vacation fiscal year will include the May to April
contractual months. Vacation bids will be open for a minimum of thirty (30) days. A master
yearly vacation day matrix will be available electronically on the Company Intranet at the
same time vacation bids open. The number of vacation days will be no less than the
number of days available to Flight Attendants for bid for that year. Vacation periods will
be awarded on the basis of preference in order of seniority. Award results shall be posted
no later than March 15th.
b. The Company will meet with the APFA National President or their designee to provide the
APFA with information as to the vacation matrix planned for the following year one (1)
week prior to the opening of the annual primary vacation bid.
c. Monthly Allocation of Vacations
d. The Company shall offer for bid each month a minimum of four and one-half percent
(4.5%) of the total vacation days available at each base during the months of July, August
and December and in all other months a minimum of three percent (3%) of the total
vacation days available at each base.
3. Secondary Vacation Bid
A Flight Attendant who is not awarded any or all of their vacation or, who failed to bid in the
primary vacation bid, or who has carry forward days to bid may bid on open vacation days in
the secondary vacation bid to be completed on or before March 23rd. If a Flight Attendant has
been awarded a period of less than four (4) days in the primary vacation bid, the Flight
Attendant will only be able to bid a period of less than four (4) days in the secondary vacation
bid if they have less than four (4) days to bid in the secondary vacation bid.
4. Assignment of Vacation
A Flight Attendant who is not awarded any or all of their vacation or who failed to bid in the
primary or secondary vacation bid will be assigned vacation period(s) by the Company.
Vacation will be assigned in seniority order starting with December 31st, assigning periods in
reverse chronological order in groups of seven (7) days. When the Flight Attendant has less
than seven (7) days unassigned, or there are no seven (7) day periods in that year to assign
the Flight Attendant, the assignment will be made to the first group that matches the remaining
day(s) starting with December 31st. If this process results in the Flight Attendant receiving a
less than four (4) day period, such period will be assigned even if the Flight Attendant was
already awarded a less than four (4) day period in the primary vacation bid.
Example:
A Flight Attendant has thirteen (13) vacation days that they failed to bid. The Company will
assign the first available seven (7) day period, working back from December 31st. The
Company will then assign the first available six (6) day period, working back from December
31st.
5. Vacation Awards
Vacation periods will be awarded and assigned in order of seniority. Award and assignment
results shall be posted on or before March 31st.
6. Monthly Vacation Rebid

-- 39 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
8-3
a. Vacation days vacated by a Flight Attendant because of separation, leave of absence,
vacation periods which were not awarded, or became available as a result of any previous
vacation rebid that year, will be posted for rebid as specified in Paragraph C.6.b, for a
minimum of ten (10) days and shall be awarded no later than the first of each month, one
(1) month prior, in order of seniority among the Flight Attendants bidding such vacation
days in the crew base. Only vacation days posted at the beginning of the vacation rebid
will be awarded that month. Such known vacation days which apply to the remainder of
the year, will be posted for rebid each month.
b. Vacation days vacated will be posted for rebid as follows:
i. If a Flight Attendant separates from the Company, all of their vacation following their
projected separation date will be taken off the Flight Attendant’s line effective the date
of notification and placed in the next monthly vacation rebid following the Flight
Attendant’s notice to the Company of separation. If the Flight Attendant does not in
fact separate from the Company, the Flight Attendant shall participate in the monthly
vacation rebid to schedule their vacation;
Example:
A Flight Attendant submits a notice on February 10th that their last date of employment
will be June 1st. The Flight Attendant has vacation scheduled in May, July and August.
The July and August vacations will be placed into the March rebid.
ii. A Flight Attendant on a Medical Leave, IOD Leave, or any leave of uncertain duration,
will retain their awarded vacation dates unless the Flight Attendant chooses to be paid
out such vacation. However, if by the opening date of the monthly vacation rebid
process for the scheduled vacation, the Flight Attendant has not provided the Company
with a release from their doctor, the vacation will be placed in the vacation rebid. If the
Flight Attendant is subsequently released by their doctor prior to the Flight Attendant’s
scheduled vacation, they will be allowed to assume such dates, in addition to any Flight
Attendant who has bid and been awarded such dates in the vacation rebid;
Example:
A Flight Attendant on a Medical Leave, IOD Leave, or any leave of uncertain duration
has vacation scheduled in May. The opening date of the monthly vacation rebid
process is March 15th. On March 15th, the vacation will be removed from the Flight
Attendant and placed in the monthly rebid for May and beyond. If the Flight Attendant
subsequently submits a release from their doctor and returns to work prior to the
vacation, the Flight Attendant’s vacation will be reinstated.
iii. If a Flight Attendant is on a leave of absence with a specified return date, excluding
Medical Leaves and IOD Leaves, any vacation time falling within the period of the leave
will be posted in the next monthly vacation rebid.
c. A Flight Attendant’s request to cancel or rebid an awarded vacation may not result in the
Flight Attendant having an additional less than four (4) day group for that year if the Flight
Attendant already has been awarded such group(s).
7. Vacation Bidding - Leave of Absence
a. A Flight Attendant on a leave of absence at the time of the vacation bid may participate in
the vacation bid for the following year provided they have accrued vacation to bid for the
following year. If the Flight Attendant does not bid in the primary or secondary vacation
bids, they will be assigned vacation periods pursuant to Paragraph C.4.

-- 40 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
8-4
b. Any vacation days accrued prior to the year of the primary vacation bid will be considered
carry forward days and bid in the secondary vacation bid. If the Flight Attendant fails to
bid such days, the day(s) will be assigned pursuant to Paragraph C.4.
c. If by the opening date of the monthly vacation rebid process for the scheduled vacation,
the Flight Attendant has not provided the Company with a release from their doctor, the
vacation will be placed in the vacation rebid. If the Flight Attendant is subsequently
released by their doctor prior to their scheduled vacation, the Flight Attendant will be
allowed to assume such dates, in addition to any Flight Attendant who has bid and been
awarded such dates in the vacation rebid.
d. A Flight Attendant who has been awarded vacation prior to the beginning of an unpaid
leave of absence and whose vacation falls during the leave of absence shall have one
opportunity to exercise one of the following options:
i. A Flight Attendant may request a payout for all or part of their vacation at the
commencement or return to duty from a leave of absence.
ii. A Flight Attendant may request a payout for all or part of their vacation during the leave
of absence.
e. A Flight Attendant may cancel all or part of the scheduled vacation while on a paid or
unpaid leave of absence and rebid such days upon the Flight Attendant’s return to duty.
f. A Flight Attendant on a leave of absence may trade with another Flight Attendant provided
the Flight Attendant’s vacation has not been posted for the vacation rebid pursuant to
Paragraph C.6.
g. A Flight Attendant on a medical leave of absence and claiming sick leave, may, at their
option, take vacation in the month the vacation is scheduled. Such Flight Attendant may
participate in the monthly rebid. Any such vacation time shall be applied towards the
credited hours for the purpose of determining active status as specified in Sick Leave,
Section 9.
h. A Flight Attendant who is unsuccessful in rebidding vacation days during the remaining
months in the current vacation fiscal year or if there are no months left in the current
vacation fiscal year to rebid the unscheduled vacation days, will carry over the days and
must bid the days during the secondary vacation bid or the days will be assigned pursuant
to Paragraph C.4.
D. VACATION LIMITS AND CARRY-FORWARD
1. Vacations shall not be cumulative and must be taken within the vacation fiscal year
subsequent to the year in which the vacation is earned.
2. Should a Flight Attendant be unable to take their accrued vacation because of circumstances
beyond the Flight Attendant’s control, the Company will examine each case based on its
individual merits and determine if the Flight Attendant will be eligible to carry over such accrual
to open periods in the subsequent year.
3. A Flight Attendant who has unassigned carry forward days must bid the days during the
secondary vacation bid or the days will be assigned pursuant to Paragraph C.4.
E. FILLER DAYS

-- 41 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
8-5
1. A Flight Attendant, at their option, may hold twenty percent (20%) of accrued vacation days to
a maximum of seven (7) six (6) days to be used as filler days. All filler days must be taken in
the vacation fiscal year subsequent to accrual.
Example: Total Accrual 24
20% 5
2. The Company will establish a separate pool of vacation slots which will be dedicated for filler
day use. The formula for determining this pool will be based on the number of filler days
awarded to Flight Attendants throughout the system but never less than five percent (5%) of
the average vacation days allotted for each crew base on a day-by-day basis as determined
by the master yearly matrix. When the percentage results in a decimal it will be rounded up
to the next whole number.
Date Crew
Base
Daily Crew Base
Allotment
Filler Day
Allotment
June 15, 2016 PHL 241 At least 13
3. The award of filler days will be accomplished as follows:
a. The master yearly filler day matrix will be posted on the Company intranet at the same
time vacation bids open.
b. Filler days for the following month will be awarded on or before the eighth (8th) of each
month effective with PBS (prior to PBS, the tenth (10th) of each month), immediately after
monthly vacation rebid awards.
c. If a vacation slot(s) for the following month remains open after the monthly rebid process,
including any vacation slot(s) that become available as a result of that month’s Flight
Attendant rebid, such slot(s) will be added to the minimum five percent (5%) filler day pool.
d. A Flight Attendant who uses filler day(s) in a month shall be paid at the same rate as a
vacation day as specified in Paragraph B.1 above.and credited three and one- half (3.5)
hours for the filler day(s).
F. VACATION BUYBACK
1. The Company will make available on an annual basis in each crew base a minimum of five
and one-half percent (5.5%) of the total annual crew base vacation accrual, excluding any
vacation carryover, for vacation buyback. Vacation buyback will be awarded by crew base in
seniority order to individual Flight Attendants prior to the annual vacation bid and
establishment of the vacation matrix. Any reduction in the vacation matrix due to vacation
buyback shall be distributed equally throughout the year. Vacation buyback awarded in
accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph will be paid in the subsequent year, no later
than the first pay period in June.
2. Following the completion of the annual vacation buyback process as specified in Paragraph
F.1, the Company may, at its sole discretion, make available additional vacation buyback in
any crew base on a monthly basis, except as provided in Paragraph 10.D.11.d. The Company
shall notify Flight Attendants of the vacation buyback prior to the first of the bid month. If
vacation buyback is offered, the award will be processed in seniority order by crew base. with
eighty percent (80%) of such vacation buyback allocated for Lineholders and twenty percent
(20%) allocated for Reserves. If insufficient Reserves/Lineholders bid their respective

-- 42 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
8-6
buyback, the time will be awarded in seniority order to the other respective group. Such
buyback shall be awarded prior to the opening of bidding. Any previously awarded vacation
time will be removed as preplanned absences and such vacation time shall be paid as pay no
credit.
3. A Flight Attendant making this election will fly the line they bid and was awarded unless the
Flight Attendant modifies their line pursuant to the Agreement.
4. The Flight Attendant will be paid pursuant to Paragraph A for the vacation day(s) at their
applicable rate. This will not apply to the Flight Attendant’s line until the vacation month. The
vacation cash out will be effected on a pay, no credit basis subject to the pay provisions of
Paragraph B. Thus, the payment for vacation day(s) will be above the monthly guarantee for
a Reserve and in addition to the Flight Attendant’s pay and credit for the month. The vacation
payout will not apply to the monthly maximum for the Flight Attendant.
G. WORKING WHILE ON VACATION
1. A Flight Attendant will not be required to work during a vacation.
2. A Flight Attendant may elect to pick up ETB time on a vacation day(s).
H. VACATION WHEN TRANSFERRING FROM ANOTHER CREW BASE
When a Flight Attendant transfers from another crew base, the Flight Attendant will be permitted to
transfer their vacation dates without any change to the vacation matrix in the new crew base.
I. VACATION TRADES
A Flight Attendant may, at their option, trade a vacation period(s), or portion thereof, with another
Flight Attendant in their crew base provided both Flight Attendants submit the request through the
ETB, by the fifth (5th) of the month prior to the month in which the trade occurs and provided that
the trade does not result in a Flight Attendant having more than one grouping of three (3) days or
less for that year.
J. OTHER
1. Flight Attendants may donate current year vacation days to another Flight Attendant according
to the Company Gift Vacation Day policy.
2. A Flight Attendant who has completed their probationary period and whose service with the
Company is terminated shall be paid for any accrued vacation.
3. A Flight Attendant’s vacation period will begin at 0000 and end at 2359 Home Base Time.
4. Once awarded, vacation shall not be cancelled by the Company.

-- 43 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
9-1
SECTION 9 - SICK LEAVE
A. SICK PAY AND CREDIT
Sick time will be paid and credited at one hundred percent (100%).
B. NOTIFICATION
1. A Flight Attendant who is unable to report for duty because of illness or injury shall
electronically notify Crew Scheduling as soon as possible. The Company will provide a
confirmation receipt to the Flight Attendant. Crew Scheduling will not discuss the nature of
the illness or injury, question the illness or injury, or request a doctor's note from a Flight
Attendant.
2. A Flight Attendant who is unable to report for duty for twenty-one (21) or more consecutive
days following the origination of a sick call will be required to notify their Crew Attendance
Manager. The Company may require a Flight Attendant who is unable to report for duty for
twenty-one (21) or more consecutive days to present medical documentation.
3. A Reserve who advises Crew Scheduling that the duration of their illness or injury is to last for
more than one (1) day will not be required to notify Crew Scheduling on each day of illness or
injury. However, a Reserve will be assumed to be available for duty at the end of the
aforementioned period, or adjoining days off, if any, unless the Flight Attendant notifies Crew
Scheduling to the contrary. A Reserve who expects to be sick for an unknown duration will
be required to advise Crew Scheduling of their status prior to the commencement of each
group of available-for-duty days.
4. A Lineholder may advise Crew Scheduling that they will be unavailable on a trip by trip basis
or, if known, may advise Crew Scheduling of the expected date they will be available.
C. SICK LEAVE ACCRUAL
1. A Flight Attendant shall be considered available for the purpose of accruing sick leave if they
are available for flight duty, is claiming sick leave or vacation, or has not been placed on an
inactive status, e.g., medical leave not claiming sick, and shall accrue sick leave credit for
each month at the following rates:
a. A Flight Attendant who is available for fifteen (15) or more days in a month will accrue four
and a half (4.5) hours sick leave for such month. as follows.
Effective Date LAA LUS
1/1/2015 3.0 hours/month 4.5 hours/month
1/1/2016 3.5 hours/month 4.5 hours/month
1/1/2017 4.0 hours/month 4.5 hours/month
1/1/2018 and beyond 4.5 hours/month 4.5 hours/month
b. A Flight Attendant who is available for fourteen (14) or fewer days in a month will not
accrue sick leave for such month.
As an exception, a Flight Attendant on active status for less than fifteen (15) calendar
days in a contractual month will accrue sick if a minimum of forty (40) hours of pay and
credit are achieved during the month.

-- 44 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
9-2
c. A Flight Attendant shall accrue sick leave during leaves of absence as provided for in the
chart in Leaves of Absence, Section 25.
2. Sick leave accrual shall be limited to one thousand five hundred (1,500) hours. A Flight
Attendant with more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) hours will retain their existing
balance, but will not be able to accrue additional sick leave in excess of one thousand five
hundred (1,500) hours.
3. Current and accurate sick leave accrual and usage records for the current and full preceding
year will be kept readily available for inspection by a Flight Attendant via Company intranet.
4. A Flight Attendant who is furloughed or on an approved leave of absence will retain all
previously accrued sick leave.
5. All accumulated sick leave shall be relinquished when a Flight Attendant’s service with the
Company ceases or the Flight Attendant is removed from the seniority list, except as provided
for retiring Flight Attendants pursuant to Insurance, Retirement and Other Benefits, Section
26.
D. CLAIMING SICK LEAVE
1. Lineholders:
a. A Lineholder will be charged trips missed from their line of flying for each trip the Flight
Attendant is unable to report for duty because of illness or injury and their sick leave bank
will be reduced accordingly. The claim will be paid with accrued sick leave, or will be
unpaid time to the extent the sick leave bank does not have the necessary accrued hours.
A Lineholder with a sick bank balance that doesn’t cover their sick call(s) will be required
to achieve a minimum monthly pay and credit of forty (40) hours. A Lineholder unable to
achieve the required minimum monthly pay and credit of forty (40) hours must request
and provide documentation to support a leave of absence to cover the unpaid sick call(s)
or make a reasonable effort to achieve forty (40) hours as defined in Scheduling, Section
10.D.17.e-f, excluding time picked up through the ETB.
b. A Lineholder will be restricted from flying over the period of time they report sick provided,
however, that a Lineholder will not be prohibited from flying a trip on the same day as a
sick call with a report time following the scheduled release time of their original trip. With
Crew Scheduling’s consent, a Lineholder shall have the option to request to rejoin the trip
provided the trip passes through their crew base, and such request is made at the time of
the initial sick call. If such request is granted by Crew Scheduling, the Lineholder will be
charged sick leave for any portion of the trip not flown.
c. A Lineholder who has called in sick for a trip may call Crew Scheduling to inform the
Company that they are able to fly on remaining day(s) of the trip for which they had called
in sick. With Crew Scheduling’s consent, a Lineholder who has called in well to Crew
Scheduling, may pick up a trip on TTS on days other than the first day of the trip the
Lineholder called in sick, except that when a sequence for which a Lineholder called in
sick includes a weekend or holiday (including the day before or the day after a holiday) in
which case the Lineholder may only pick up a trip on a weekend or holiday. Holidays
include New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Halloween,
Thanksgiving, and Christmas. The Lineholder will be charged sick leave for any portion of
the trip coded as sick.

-- 45 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
9-3
Example:
A Lineholder has a four-day trip starting on Thursday. The Lineholder calls in sick for the
trip. The Lineholder may call in well and with Crew Scheduling’s consent, pick up trips
from TTS on Saturday and Sunday.
A Lineholder has a four-day trip starting on Saturday. The Lineholder calls in sick for the
trip. The Lineholder may not call in well to pick up trips from TTS on Monday and
Tuesday.
d. A Lineholder who does not contact Crew Scheduling to call in well or is not permitted to
rejoin their trip or is restricted in accordance with the weekend/holiday restriction
provisions of Paragraph D.1.c, to fly on days for which the Lineholder reported sick will be
restricted from flying over the period of time they report sick. Sick leave claims will be
automatically deducted from the Flight Attendant’s sick leave bank.
e. A Lineholder who is unable to report for duty because of illness or injury and whose sick
leave bank is exhausted will have their applicable monthly guarantee reduced as follows:
Minimum guarantee / Total number of days scheduled to fly up to a maximum of 15 =
Daily Reduction
The result of this division will determine the amount of reduction for each day a Lineholder
is scheduled to fly but is unable to report because of illness or injury. If a Lineholder is
able to accept a trip on a day other than the one originally scheduled in the month, the
above computation will be adjusted as though the additional day was one of the regularly
scheduled duty days.
2. Reserves:
A Reserve will be charged for sick calls as follows:
a. A Reserve will be automatically charged for day(s) on which they report sick and their sick
bank will be reduced accordingly for each day of reserve availability they are unable to
report for duty because of illness or injury. A Reserve will be charged the value of the
Reserve four (4) hours and ten (10) minutes (thirty (30) day for each month) or three (3)
hours and fifty-six (56) minutes (thirty-one (31) day month) per day or trips missed,
whichever is greater, for trips they have been awarded and/or assigned and subsequently
reports sick. A Reserve with a sick bank balance that is insufficient to cover sick call(s)
will be considered unavailable for such day(s), including days off, until the Reserve returns
to available status. A Reserve must meet the requirements of Vacation, Section 8.A.3 and
Sick Leave, Section 9.C.1.a, to accrue sick and vacation for the month.
b. If a Reserve is charged for sick leave, the Reserve’s sick leave bank will be charged at
the time of the sick call.
c. Claims will be paid with accrued sick leave, or will be unpaid time to the extent the sick
leave bank does not have the necessary accrued hours. The Reserve guarantee will be
reduced by the value of the Reserve four (4) hours and ten (10) minutes (thirty (30) day
month) or three (3) hours and fifty-six (56) minutes (thirty-one (31) day month) per day for
each day they would have been utilized if the sick leave bank does not have the necessary
accrued hours.

-- 46 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
9-4
d. A Reserve will be restricted from flying over the period of time they report sick regardless
of available sick bank. A Reserve, at their option, may call in sick for each day of a block
of reserve availability or for multiple days of a block of reserve availability. A Reserve
who has called in sick for a trip may call Crew Scheduling to inform the Company that
they are able to fly on remaining day(s) of the trip for which they had called in sick. With
Crew Scheduling’s consent, the Reserve may return to reserve availability status.
3. A Flight Attendant who is unable to report for duty because of illness or injury will not be
eligible for any premiums for trips missed.
4. A Flight Attendant on a paid leave of absence, i.e., Maternity, Medical or Family Medical
Leave, will be charged sick to the value of their line or reserve guarantee.
E. DOCTOR’S STATEMENTS
1. The Company will not automatically require a doctor’s statement based on a specific number
of sick calls.
2. The Company may require a doctor’s written confirmation of illness or injury or make personal
inquiries of the type or nature of such illness or injury when the Company can demonstrate
that it has reasonable cause to believe that a Flight Attendant’s use of sick leave may have
been for other than legitimate reasons. Further, the cost of such doctor’s confirmation shall
be borne by the Company with the understanding that a Flight Attendant may be required to
submit to an examination by a doctor of the Company’s choice at a time dictated by the
Company.
3. The provisions of Section 9 are established to ensure that a Flight Attendant who has sufficient
sick hours shall not suffer a loss of compensation while they are legitimately ill or injured. A
Flight Attendant who uses sick leave for other than legitimate illness or injury may be subject
to disciplinary action based on the facts involved.
F. A Flight Attendant who becomes ill or injured on a trip and is unable to complete their trip will be
provided Positive Space on-line travel or on American Airlines or carriers whose inventory is
controlled by the Company, on the first available flight to the Flight Attendant’s crew base. At the
Flight Attendant’s option and with Inflight approval, the Flight Attendant will be provided positive
space on-line travel, including carriers whose inventory is controlled by the Company, to the Flight
Attendant’s residence. At the request of the Company, a Flight Attendant may be required to obtain
a medical release to travel, at the Company’s expense, prior to returning to their crew base or
residence. If the Flight Attendant is unable to fly, appropriate alternate ground transportation will
be provided by the Company. The terms and conditions of such positive space travel shall be in
accordance with Company policy. The policy regarding travel for ill or injured Flight Attendants
shall be no less favorable than the policy afforded to pilots.
G. Inflight Supervisors and Management will maintain confidentiality of any medical information
provided by a Flight Attendant.

-- 47 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-1
SECTION 10 - SCHEDULING
A. JOINT SCHEDULING COMMITTEE (JSC)
1. Composition
a. The APFA shall designate a committee of up to six (6) members for the purpose of making
recommendations to the Company with regard to establishing or modifying policies,
procedures and parameters for the scheduling of Flight Attendants. The Company will
include representatives from Crew Planning and Crew Scheduling, Inflight and Labor
Relations, as necessary.
b. The JSC will meet with the Company prior to the introduction of changes to the Scheduling
system pursuant to this Agreement to jointly develop such policies, procedures and
parameters, which shall not be outside the legalities of this Agreement and shall adhere
as nearly as practicable to prior established practices unless by mutual agreement. Such
subjects shall include, but not be limited to:
i. Sequence construction, generation, and review;
ii. Bid award;
iii. Training bids and awards;
iv. Reserve staffing and utilization;
v. Trip Trade System (TTS);
vi. Vacations;
vii. Block hour adjustment;
viii. Electronic Trade Board (ETB);
ix. Crew base block hour allocation by equipment; and,
x. Any scheduling related issues mutually agreed upon.
xi. Any Satellite Base related issues mutually agreed upon.
2. Meeting
a. Meetings shall be held quarterly or more often, as deemed appropriate by the JSC, and
in a place of its choosing.
b. The APFA and the Company will exchange, maintain and update points of contact
between their respective subcommittees. The respective committees need not physically
meet as a whole to complete their work.
c. The Company will pay flight pay loss and reasonable lodging and expenses for the
National Scheduling Chair when the Company requests to meet or for any Scheduling
meeting contractually required.

-- 48 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-2
d. The Company shall provide the APFA JSC participants Union Leave pursuant to Leaves
of Absences, Section 25.I, from flying duties when the requirements of the Company
permit.
3. Data Access
a. The JSC shall be provided access to and will use all methods, data, and reference
materials which it determines is reasonable and necessary to affect their work. The JSC
shall coordinate the timely exchange of data and reports, as well as the format, content
and media of such information.
b. It is understood by the parties that some information may be identified by the Company
as privileged. The APFA agrees to keep this information confidential until informed
otherwise by the Company.
4. Recommendations
a. Contemplated changes to crew resource methodologies pertinent to the allocation,
sequence, and scheduling of flying will be discussed jointly prior to their implementation.
b. The Company shall consider the recommendations made by the APFA’s National
Scheduling Chair regarding the priority to be placed on controllable variables used in the
production of allocations, assignments, trip sequences, lines of flying and other areas
reviewed by the JSC.
c. The Company shall implement the recommendations of the JSC in a timely manner.
B. SEQUENCE GENERATION
1. Flight Attendant sequences shall be constructed in accordance with the parameters found in
Hours of Service, Section 11. Sequences may include a mixture of aircraft type and/or crew
complement, but a Flight Attendant will not be required to work a different position number
within a sequence. An individual flight segment may be crewed using different sequence
numbers.
Example: 319/320/321. In this example, a sequence contains both Airbus 319 and 321. In
this case, the Airbus 321 would be staffed with a “chaser” position and be on a separate
Airbus 321 sequence.
Example: If a sequence contains A321 and 787 flying, the crew working on the A321 will work
the same positions on the 787. The additional positions required on the 787 would be staffed
with another crew from a different sequence(s).
2. CRAF or charter sequences will be in accordance with the guidelines outlined in CRAF,
Section 19, and Charters, Section 18. The Company shall make every effort to allow the Joint
Scheduling Committee to review such sequences prior to publication.
3. Sequence Parameters
a. The Company will build all known flying at the time of sequence construction into
sequences. Any flying that becomes known after sequence construction will be distributed
through the Trip Trade System (TTS), Daily Processing and Reserve Processing, unless
governed by a specific provision of this agreement, e.g., CRAF or charters, in which case
those provisions shall apply.

-- 49 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-3
b. There will be a mixture of one (1) duty period, two (2) duty period, three (3) duty period,
and four (4) duty period sequences. There will be a mixture of one-day, two-day, three-
day, and four-calendar day sequences, except sequences which contain International
Premium Destination (IPD) duty periods may be scheduled for up to six (6) duty periods
and up to a maximum of six (6) calendar days*.
* Sequences greater than four-days/duty periods must contain at least one (1) IPD duty period
and will be limited to a duty period containing one (1) Domestic segment, one (1) Domestic
segment and one (1) IPD segment, one (1) IPD segment, or two (2) IPD segments.
4. Sequence Review
a. After the initial sequence solution is provided to the APFA, the APFA shall have the
opportunity to provide the Company with input for the Company’s review and
consideration.
b. For purposes of sequence review, the following schedule shall apply:
DAY FUNCTION
1st day of month one month prior
to bid period at 1200 DFW
Crew Schedule Planning provides
APFA JSC with sequences for initial
sequence review
3rd day of month one month prior
to bid period at 1200 DFW
APFA JSC initial sequence response
due to Crew Schedule Planning
6th day of month one month prior
to bid period at 1200 DFW
APFA JSC provided with sequences
for final sequence review (Monthly)
c. Crew Schedule Planning shall give due consideration to all changes suggested by the
APFA. Union members of the JSC. Any sequence identified by the APFA JSC that does
not meet the terms of this Agreement shall be rebuilt to comply with the Agreement.
d. Recognizing that some sequence(s), which are otherwise legal, may present problems
such as excessive fatigue or service difficulties, APFA may the Union members of the
JSC give input for the Company’s review and consideration.
C. MONTHLY BIDDING INFORMATION AND BID PROCESS
1. Electronic bid packages, in printable and downloadable format, shall be considered the final
bid package and will be available to view in the PBS system no later than the eighth (8th) day
of the month prior to the PBS bid period opening at 1200 0600 DFW.
2. Each monthly bid package shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
a. A list of Reserve Availability Periods;
b. A textual list of events and dates that comprises the monthly bid process;
c. The line building range as specified in Paragraph D.11.d;
d. The minimum, midpoint and maximum number of projected lines for each crew base;
e. Total number of Flight Attendants by crew base;

-- 50 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-4
f. The minimum number of Reserves;
g. Line average as specified in Paragraph D.11.e;
h. A list identifying each layover hotel, the applicable location and contact (telephone)
numbers, internet availability, transportation information, contact information and pick up
location. A list of available discounts and amenities will be provided to the National Hotel
Chair;
i. Applicable Crew Scheduling and other Company contact telephone numbers; and,
j. The projected standby shifts including start time, length, and location.
j.k. Other information as agreed upon by the APFA National Scheduling Chair and the
Company.
3. The Company shall provide to Flight Attendants electronic sequence packages, concurrent
with the electronic bid packages, in a printable, downloadable, and sortable format.
Concurrent with the electronic bid packages, in printable and downloadable format, the
Company shall provide a reasonable number of printed sequence packages, along with
printed copies of the information specified in Paragraph C.2 in all Flight Attendant crew
bases. The number of printed sequence packages will be based on historical usage and will
be enough to accommodate expected Flight Attendant usage. If the Company runs out of
sequence packages, additional packages will be printed upon request.
4. The times specified below shall be in Home Base Time (HBT). No sooner than twelve (12)
months after the PBS implementation, the Company may substitute an electronic bid package
for the paper bid package. The following information shall be published on each sequence in
the sequence package and subsequent sequences produced in the Crew Tracking System:
a. Credit hours, block hours, and Duty Rig credit per duty period and sequence;
b. Hours and minutes of duty per duty period;
c. Time away from base;
d. Sequence numbers;
e. Flight numbers, cities from and to for each flight;
f. Sequence report and release times;
g. Report and release times for each duty period;
h. Layover cities and layover time duty break;
i. Minimum rest requirement after each duty period;
j. Ground time between segments;
k. Specific aircraft type;
l. Identified aircraft changes;
m. Transportation and hotel contact telephone numbers;

-- 51 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-5
n. Crew meal schedule, if applicable;
o. Dates of operation;
p. Calendar showing dates and day of week of operation;
q. Departure and arrival times;
r. Number of duty periods;
s. Deadhead segments;
t. City codes;
u. Number of Speaker positions will be identified; and,
v. Other information as agreed upon by the APFA’s National Scheduling Committee Chair
and the Company.
5. Changes to the sequences will be made available to all Flight Attendants by computer file and
by posting on the Inflight website. The Company may make changes to the sequences up to
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the PBS bid closing.
6. Changes made during the twenty-four (24) hours prior to the actual time of PBS bid closing,
other than the complete elimination of a trip selection, will be treated as a reschedule.
7. If the Company cancels a sequence during the PBS bidding window, it will be removed from
PBS and shall not be awarded. If such cancelled sequence is awarded to a Flight Attendant,
it will be treated as a misaward pursuant to Paragraph D.15.a.
7.8. The monthly bid shall be processed according to the following schedule:
Process Deadline
Recurrent Training Bidding
Opens
1st day of calendar month prior to bid period; no later than
1200 DFW
Recurrent Training Bidding
Closes 6th day of calendar month prior to bid period at 1200 DFW
Recurrent Training Award
Publication
7th day of calendar month prior to bid period; no later than
1200 DFW
Bid Package Available Online
Vacation Buy Back Awards
Posted
8th day of calendar month prior to bid period; no later than
1200
at 0600 DFW
PBS Bidding Opens for new
Month 10th day of calendar month prior to bid period at 1200 DFW
PBS Bidding Closes 15th day of calendar month prior to bid period at 1200 DFW
PBS Preliminary Award 18th day of calendar month prior to bid period at 1200 DFW

-- 52 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-6
PBS Award Official Publication 20th day of calendar month prior to bid period at 1200 DFW
Monthly Vacation Buyback Opens 23rd day of calendar month prior to bid period at 1200 DFW
Monthly Vacation Buyback
Closes Last day of calendar month prior to bid period at 1200 DFW
Monthly Vacation Buyback Award
Publication
No later than the last day of the calendar month prior to bid
period at 1700 DFW
D. PREFERENTIAL BID SYSTEM (PBS)
1. Flight Attendants shall use a Preferential Bidding System to construct Lineholder and
Reserve lines of flying. In the event the Company desires to change PBS vendors, vendor
selection shall be made by mutual agreement of the parties.
2. A Joint Scheduling Implementation Committee (JSIC) shall be established upon ratification
of this Agreement. Implementation and development of the PBS system, TTS, and
implementation of Scheduling, Reserve and related sections shall be overseen by the JSIC.
a. The JSIC shall consist of three (3) Company members and three (3) Union members.
The Union members of the JSIC will be considered full time and shall be available
during normal business hours commencing at ratification through implementation of PBS
(the first day of the bid period PBS is used for actual Lineholder and Reserve schedules
following the period of required parallel bidding) plus three (3) months. Following the
three (3) month period, the JSIC shall continue to meet to resolve any outstanding
issues related to implementation of PBS and members shall be released with pay on an
as needed basis. The Company will pay flight pay loss and reasonable lodging and
expenses for the JSIC.
3.2. The Union members of the JSIC The APFA Contract and Scheduling Chairs will be provided
equal access to verify system settings, constraints and parameters and shall be afforded union
administrator access to the PBS system; and shall be provided any access to monitor the PBS
runs. Upon request, the APFA Contract and Scheduling Chairs Committee shall be provided
with any data or reports readily available from PBS. Following PBS implementation, such
information will be made available to the Union Scheduling Committee Chair or her/ his
designee on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the APFA Contract and Scheduling Chairs shall be provided view only access (no
ability to make changes to the system) to ETB, TTS/UBL, and ROTA/D. The APFA may
request reports and the Company shall provide any data or reports readily available for ETB,
TTS/UBL and ROTA/D.
4.3. The APFA and the Company shall jointly update PBS, TTS/UBL, ROTA/D, and ETB procedure
manuals, and training manuals as needed. The Company shall consult with the APFA
Contract and Scheduling Chair(s) as it relates to any concerns regarding PBS.
a. the event a dispute arises as to whether PBS testing provides awards consistent with the
Agreement, such dispute will be expedited to arbitration for resolution. PBS may be
implemented by the Company without delay and the arbitrator will have authority to
require prospective corrections necessary to provide awards consistent with the
Agreement. The affected Flight Attendant will be made whole for contractual violations
associated with the implementation of PBS which resulted in lost compensation the

-- 53 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-7
Flight Attendant normally would have earned without the error. The Arbitrator will have
no authority to order the Company to cease utilizing PBS or otherwise delay or complete
implementation. Additionally, the Company will be allowed continued use of the existing
system until any required arbitrator changes can be implemented. The Company
however, will implement any programming and/or administrative changes required in the
award as soon as practicable and will not unreasonably delay the implementation of any
required modifications. The hearing shall be conducted expeditiously and a decision will
be rendered within sixty (60) days from the date a panel is requested, unless mutually
agreed otherwise.
b. The JSIC shall develop all required PBS and TTS The JSIC shall be responsible for the
oversight of a three (3) month parallel bidding process in each crew base for Flight
Attendant familiarization with PBS. It is understood that because of operational and/or
system interface issues, parallel testing may be different in each crew base, and the
parallel bidding process may be extended upon agreement of the JSIC. Parallel bidding
may commence in different bid periods and/or in different crew bases as determined by
the Company.
5.4. All PBS algorithms, parameters, logic, bidding options, interface, PBS versions, etc., must be
mutually agreed upon and shall not be changed without mutual agreement. No part of the
PBS software or equipment shall be substituted, altered, or modified without the prior written
consent of the APFA.
6.5. Costs of PBS
a. The Company shall bear all expenses related to the initial start-up and subsequent
“debugging” of PBS, including but not limited to, software development and all post-
installation software modification required to meet the terms of this Agreement, equipment
purchases, the interfacing of current hardware with new PBS computers, the supplying of
sufficient numbers of operating terminals for Flight Attendants to bid at each crew base,
and the providing for internet and network bidding capabilities for a web-based program.
b. The Company agrees to secure an agreement with the PBS vendor which entitles the
Company to receive, on an ongoing basis, the most up-to-date version of the PBS
software.
c. The Company shall continue to provide PBS training to new hires.
4. The Company shall provide mandatory Company paid PBS training, governed by the
provisions of Training, Section 29. Such training shall occur prior to the parallel bidding
process. A Flight Attendant who is on a Leave of Absence (LOA) during the training period
will be provided training upon return from her/his LOA. Content of such course will be
developed by the JSIC and available at each crew base.
5. Trainers
a. For the first ninety (90) days following implementation, the trainers will be available to
help Flight Attendants bid and understand their award.
b. The Company shall bear all costs of training, including pay for Flight Attendants
appointed as trainers. A trainer assigned as a member of the Company’s sponsored
PBS task force will be paid one hundred and five (105) hours per month and all
reasonable expenses.
c. The trainers shall be appointed by the JSIC.

-- 54 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-8
d. The JSIC shall oversee the disbursement of a “training bank” of ten thousand (10,000)
hours which will be established to fund deployment of such Flight Attendants to serve as
crew base training representatives. During the training months, in addition to the Union
members of the PBS Committee, there will be trainers in each crew base (and co-
terminals).
6. Following the conclusion of the work of the JSIC, the Company shall consult with the Union
Scheduling Committee as it relates to any concerns regarding PBS.
7.6. As far in advance as possible, but no later than 1200 DFW on the third (3rd) ninth (9th) day of
the month prior, the Scheduling Committee Chair shall be provided the system settings for the
next month’s PBS award. The system settings which may change from month to month are
limited to the target average line value, minimum number of Reserves for the bid period, and
percentage of Reserves available on each day of the month. The Committee Chair may make
recommendations pertaining to such settings.
8.7. As far in advance as possible, but no later than 1200 DFW on the third (3rd ) ninth (9th) day of
the month prior, the Scheduling Committee shall be provided with the following information:
a. Block and credit time allocated to each crew base/position and crew complement;
b. Other credit hours by crew base including vacation credit hours, known sick hours,
Company business hours, training credit hours;
c. Total soft credit hours by crew base; and,
d. Other specific information as agreed upon by the Company and the APFA.JSC.
9.8. All known sequences at the time of PBS award shall be included in the PBS bid and awarded
to Flight Attendants bidding for such sequences while respecting the seniority of the bidder’s
choices, pre-planned activity (Vacation, Union Business, Training, etc.) and the global award
constraints as outlined in Paragraph D.
10.9. Awards
A Flight Attendant’s final bid award shall be available for review in PBS, accessible from
home through a web-based program, no later than 1200 0600 DFW on the twentieth (20th)
nineteenth (19th) day of the month prior. The following information shall be included in such
award in a format to be agreed upon between the Company and the APFAJSIC:
a. Scheduled Credit Hours for the line;
b. Scheduled Block Hours for the line;
c. Scheduled time away from base for the line;
d. Actual number of days off in line;
e. Sequence numbers;
f. Carry in and carry out credit;
g. Sequence report and release times;

-- 55 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-9
h. Positions by sequence;
i. Scheduled credit for each sequence;
j. Layover cities;
k. Days off and days of availability blocks for Reserves;
l. Training assignments;
m. Vacation days;
n. Planned absences;
o. Number of landings;
p. Number of Duty Periods; and,
q. Other information as agreed upon by the APFAJSIC and Company.
The Company will provide an electronic means to allow Automated Voice Response System
(AVRS) that a Flight Attendant may use to check their PBS awarded sequences and positions.
A Flight Attendant who participates in PBS will be deemed to have acknowledged and
accepted the sequences awarded in their line.
11.10. It shall be the Flight Attendant’s responsibility to enter their bids into PBS. Errors or
omissions from bid services or the Flight Attendant’s designee who are allowed access to the
Flight Attendant’s bids shall not be the responsibility of the Company.
12.11. Global Parameters
a. PBS shall construct lines in accordance with the global parameters as defined in
Paragraph 11. Bid awards shall be made in seniority order and in compliance with the
global constraints of the system. Such parameters may be altered by mutual agreement
as outlined in Paragraph A.1.
b. The maximum amount of open time remaining after posting of PBS awards shall not
exceed three percent (3%) of the total sequence credit time at the crew base, or the
equivalent of one (1) line of flying at the minimum PBS bidding window, ignoring low time
options, whichever is greater. For the purposes of this Paragraph, total sequence credit
time shall include those hours included in a sequence which originates during the month
for which lines are being constructed.
c. Any open time remaining after posting of PBS line awards shall be distributed evenly
throughout the month according to the logic of the PBS system.
d. Lines shall be constructed to create lines of flying containing a minimum of seventy (70)
credit hours and a maximum of ninety (90) credit hours per bid period. The Company
may flex the minimum and maximum line value upward by an annual amount of twenty-
five (25) hours, but in no case more than five (5) hours during any given month. Flexes
beyond twenty-five (25) hours in a year will require agreement of the APFA. Upon request,
the Company will meet with the APFA JSC and supply information demonstrating the
necessity of the flex. Upon identifying the need to flex, in any month the Company flexes
the maximum, the Company must offer vacation monthly buyback for that month.

-- 56 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-10
e. The Company may set a targeted line average between seventy-five (75) and eighty-five
(85) hours. In months the Company flexes the maximum to ninety-five (95) hours, the
targeted line average may be set to no more than eighty-eight (88) hours. The targeted
line average is a global parameter which will be respected while awarding Flight Attendant
sequences pursuant to their seniority.
f. As an exception to Paragraph D.11.d, a Flight Attendant may indicate a PBS bid choice
which may allow the PBS bid award to exceed the bounds specified by bidding a low or
high bidding option. Lines constructed in accordance with this bid option shall be
constructed to no less than forty (40) hours (Low Option) or no more than one hundred
and ten (110) hours (High Option).
g. Flight Attendant(s) who select the Low Option during a given bid month and also hold at
least seven (7) days or more of vacation during that month, shall be given priority to
achieve a PBS result below the minimum line value ahead of other Flight Attendants
who may be more senior but do not hold vacation. (Subject to vendor capability).
13.12. In addition to the global parameters specified in Paragraph D.11, PBS shall award
sequences within a bid line in accordance with the additional parameters specified in this
Paragraph. Such parameters may be altered by mutual agreement as outlined in
Paragraph A.1.
a. The established PBS, TTS and ETB default for crew base rest time between sequences
shall be as specified in Hours of Service, Section 11.I and International Flying, Section
14.H, plus forty-five (45) minutes. A Flight Attendant, at their option, may waive to
minimum Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) rest plus one (1) hour and thirty (30) minutes.
In actual operations, a Flight Attendant electing this option will be required to reduce rest
to minimum FAR rest.
b. Multiple Sequences: Unless waived by the Flight Attendant, the PBS, TTS and ETB
systems shall not force a Flight Attendant to commence a new sequence on the same day
they check out from a sequence. A Flight Attendant may waive to accept multiple
sequences (terminating and beginning) in the same calendar day separated by legal crew
base rest plus forty- five (45) minutes. A Flight Attendant, at their option, may waive to
minimum FAR rest plus one (1) hour and thirty (30) minutes. In actual operations, a Flight
Attendant electing this option will be required to reduce rest to minimum FAR rest.
c. Double Up Sequences: Unless waived by a Flight Attendant, the PBS system will not
award double up sequences, which are two (2) sequences within the same duty day not
separated by legal crew base rest. A Flight Attendant waiving to receive a double up
sequence shall not be scheduled to exceed the FAR maximum. A Flight Attendant
waiving to accept double up sequences may be awarded a sequence separated by thirty
(30) minutes from check-out to check-in.
d. The combined sequence awarded in Paragraph D.12.c, must meet the contractual rest
requirements as a single sequence unless waived by the Flight Attendant.
e. The established PBS default for the consideration of block time in a period of seven (7)
consecutive days shall be no more than thirty (30) block hours. At the Flight Attendant’s
option, such limitation shall be waived.
f. The established PBS default for the consideration of required rest in seven (7) days shall
require that FAR rest may not be obtained while on a layover. However, at the Flight
Attendant’s option, such FAR rest may be obtained while on a layover.

-- 57 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-11
14.13. Bidding Options
a. The Company agrees to provide and properly maintain sufficient computers at each
crew base.
b. When selecting hotels, the Company shall preference “no cost” internet access for PBS.
Should other crew members be afforded free internet access at the same hotels, such
free internet access shall be provided to Flight Attendants.
c. A Flight Attendant shall not be charged to interface with the PBS program from their
personal computer through the Flight Attendant’s internet service provider. The
Company’s system shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate all Flight Attendant
users on-line without restriction or delay. The Company agrees to work with the JSC on
an ongoing basis to ensure that concerns regarding interface with programs are promptly
addressed.
d. At a minimum, bidding options and system capabilities offered shall include the following:
PBS LINEHOLDER PROPERTIES
1. Days Off [Date]
Flight Attendant may bid for a day(s) off on a specific date on a calendar.
2. Minimum Days Off Between Work Blocks [Value]
Flight Attendant may set the number of days off between work periods. The system
default is one (1) day.
3. Maximize Weekend Days Off [Prefer]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer the greatest number of weekend days (Saturday
or Sunday) off anywhere in the month.
4. Maximize Total Days Off [Prefer]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer the greatest number of days off anywhere in the
month.
5. Maximize Block of Days Off
Flight Attendant may bid the greatest number of consecutive days off anywhere in
the month.
6. String of Days Off [Starting on Date, Ending on Date]
Flight Attendant may bid for a string of days off.
7. Waive Minimum Days Off
Flight Attendant may waive the minimum days off.
8. Pairing [Pairing number, Date]
Flight Attendant may bid for a specific sequence number and/or a specific sequence
number on a specific date.
9. Pairing Length [Value, and/or On a Specific Date]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer sequences with a specified number of calendar
days and/or a specified number of calendar days on a specific date.
10. Duty Periods [Prefer]
Flight Attendant shall be able to prefer a number of duty periods within a sequence.
11. Report Between/Release Between [Before/After, Time, Date]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences that report/release before or after a specific
time and/or for sequences that report/release before or after a specific time on a
specific date.
12. Mid-Pairing Report After [Time]

-- 58 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-12
Flight Attendant may select the earliest possible report time for all duty periods within
a sequence, excluding the first duty.
13. Mid-Pairing Release Before [Time]
Flight Attendant may select the latest possible release time for all duty periods within
a sequence, excluding the last duty period.
14. Pairing Type [Type of Pairing]
Flight Attendant may prefer a type of pairing(s).
15. Speaker Required Pairings [Specific Language]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences that require a specified foreign language
qualification.
16. Maximum TAFB-Credit Ratio [Credit Ratio Value]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences that do not exceed the Credit Ratio Value
(sequence time away from base/sequence credit).
17. Minimum Average Credit Per Duty [Value]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences with a minimum average credit time per duty.
This limit shall apply to all duty periods within the sequence.
18. Maximum Duty Time Per Duty [Value]
Flight Attendant may bid for a maximum amount of time per duty period.
19. Maximum Block Per Duty [Value]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences with a maximum block time per duty period.
This limit shall apply to all duty periods within the sequence.
20. Connection Time [Minimum/Maximum Value]
Flight Attendants may bid for sequences that have a minimum or maximum
connection (sit) times. This limit shall apply to all duty periods within the sequence.
21. Deadheads [Prefer/Avoid]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer or avoid deadheads in the sequence.
22. Co-Terminal/Satellite [Prefer, Co-Terminal/Satellite]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences that originate from a specific co-
terminal/satellite.
23. Layover at City [Prefer/Avoid, Station, Date]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer or avoid a layover station.
24. Layover Time [Minimum/Maximum, Duration]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences with a minimum or maximum layover
between duty periods. This limit shall apply to all layovers within the sequence.
25. Landing at City [Prefer/Avoid, Station]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer or avoid landing at a city within a sequence.
26. One Landing on First/Last Duty [Prefer]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer one landing on the first and/or last duty period
within a sequence.
27. Maximum Landings per Duty Period [Value]
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences with a maximum number of landings per duty
period. This limit shall apply to all duty periods within the sequence.
28. Aircraft [Prefer/Avoid, Aircraft type]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer or avoid sequences with specific aircraft type.
29. Positions Order [Crew position]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer a specific position(s) in priority order on
sequences. Flight Attendants positions are specified on each sequence.
30. Prefer Positions Order Per Aircraft [Prefer]
A Flight Attendant may prefer a specific position on an aircraft, Flight Attendant
positions are specified on each sequence*.
31. Target Credit Range [Minimum/Maximum, Value]
Flight Attendant may preference line built within a specific credit range.
32. Maximize Credit [Prefer]

-- 59 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-13
Flight Attendant may bid for the highest credit value possible at that layer.
33. Work Block Size [Minimum/Maximum]
Flight Attendant may bid for a work block with a minimum and maximum of
consecutive workdays contained within a work block. This will apply to all work
blocks within the month. System default is 1 – 6 workdays.
34. Cadence on Day-of-Week [Prefer]
Flight Attendant may select work blocks that begin on the same day of the week
throughout the bid month.
35. Commutable Work Block [Time]
Flight Attendant may bid a work block that begins after a specific time and ends prior
to a specified time.
36. Pairing Mix in a Work Block [Min 3, Max 6]
Flight Attendant may create work block that contain sequences of specific lengths.
The system will use the sequence lengths only in the order that the Flight Attendant
specifies.
37. Allow Double-Ups [Date]
Flight Attendants may elect to allow legal double-ups on a specific date to be
included in their awarded line.
38. Allow Double-Ups [Prefer]
Flight Attendants may elect to allow legal double-ups to be included in their awarded
line.
39. Allow Multiple Pairings [Prefer, Date]
Flight Attendants may elect to allow two (2) sequences in the same calendar day
separated by legal crew base rest in their line-of-time or to limit multiple pairings to
only a specific date(s).
40. Allow Co-Terminal Mix in Work Block
Flight Attendant may bid for sequences that originate in different airports within a co-
terminal base to be awarded within the same work block.
41. Waive Crew Base Rest in accordance with Paragraph D.12.
42. Waive Carryover Credit
Flight Attendants shall be able to designate in PBS whether or not to apply carryover
duty period(s) for credit purposes only. Excluded carryover time will not be
considered when calculating the average line value.
43. Avoid Person(s)
Flight Attendant may avoid up to four (4) other Flight Attendants waiving their
seniority to immediately below the most junior Flight Attendant’s seniority.
44. Buddy With
Flight Attendant may bid with up to four (4) other Flight Attendants, utilizing the
seniority of the least senior Flight Attendant.
PBS RESERVE PROPERTIES
45. Reserve Days Off [Date]
Flight Attendant may bid for Reserve Day(s) off on a specific date on a calendar by
priority by layer.
46. Block of Reserve Days Off [Prefer, Value]
Flight Attendant may bid to prefer a number of consecutive Reserve Days off.*
47. Waive to Allow Carryover to be Reserve Days Off
Flight Attendant shall be able to designate carry-over pairings as Reserve days off. If
used, any carry-over trip will be paid above reserve guarantee (pay no credit).
48. Reserve Work Block Size [Minimum/Maximum]
Flight Attendant may bid for a Reserve work block with a minimum and maximum of
consecutive days of Reserve (Standing Bid Only).

-- 60 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-14
PBS LINEHOLDER AND RESERVE PROPERTIES
49. Reasons Report – System shall generate a report for each Flight Attendant which
explains why a preferred sequence or day off was not awarded.
50. Standing Bids – System shall maintain persistent or “standing” bids which shall act
as default bids should the Flight Attendant fail to enter a monthly bid. If a Flight
Attendant fails to input their bid and does not have a standing bid, the Flight
Attendant’s bid will be a default bid created by the JSC.
51. Vacation Extension (VEX) – A Flight Attendant who is scheduled for at least seven
(7) consecutive vacation days may elect to place up to a total of four (4) days off (at
sole discretion of the Flight Attendant) before, after, or split on either side of such
vacation period. The days off will act as a pre-planned absence and will carry
neither a value for pay nor credit. Such days off will be counted toward the
Reserve’s scheduled Golden Days. Such block of four (4) days, or portion thereof,
may be extended into the next bid period. Such election shall be honored unless the
PBS program cannot produce a solution honoring such election.
52. Pay Purpose Only (PPO) Bid – Crew Schedule Planning shall run PBS with the
same bids and settings as the regular bid with the addition of the bids (standing or
actual) of any Flight Attendant who is off the entire bid period to determine what they
could have held for pay purposes only. Such PPO awards shall only be used for this
pay determination and shall not change in any way sequence awards as published in
the final line awards.
53. Other bid Options as agreed by the APFA and the Company, subject to vendor
capability.
*Note: If the provision(s) cause PBS to exceed the contractual PBS timeline, the parties will
mutually agree on a solution.
14. Infeasible Solutions
a. If, during the actual PBS run, it becomes apparent that the PBS system will result in an
infeasible solution or the solution is processing too slowly that it may not comply with the
applicable time requirements, the Company may discontinue the PBS run. In such
instances, the Company shall notify the National Scheduling Chair of each situation as
soon as possible.
b. During the notification process, the Company shall provide the National Scheduling Chair
the following information:
i. Reason the PBS run was terminated;
ii. Proposed PBS setting(s) to be modified for the run; and,
iii. Company contact number and time of call, if the APFA’s designated National
Scheduling Chair is not available.
c. Upon notification of an unsuccessful PBS award process, the National Scheduling Chair
may provide recommendations for methods to effectively complete the PBS award
process. If the Company is unable to reach the National Scheduling Chair, the Company
shall contact the APFA National President.
d. Other than specified in this Paragraph, the Company may not discontinue a PBS run
intended for publication or rerun a PBS award that has been run and awarded in

-- 61 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-15
compliance with this Agreement. This provision is not meant to prohibit a PBS run not
intended for publication such as a run to test the parameters of the system.
15. PBS Mis-awards Due to System or Company Error
a. Any Flight Attendant who has an inquiry or believes they may have received a mis-award
shall notify Crew Schedule Planning no later than the 1200 DFW on the twenty-fourth
(24th) of the month, or, if on vacation, within twenty-four (24) hours of return from the Flight
Attendant’s vacation. No remedy will be offered if the subject of the inquiry was due to
the Flight Attendant’s choice of bid preferences. In the event of a system error or
Company initiated error, a Flight Attendant may fly any of their mis-awarded sequences,
or may, at the Flight Attendant’s option be removed from the sequence(s) and be made
whole as outlined below: follows:
i. A Flight Attendant will be required to bid for “like sequences”. A like sequence shall
have comparable check-in/out times, number of days, Domestic for Domestic, IPD for
IPD, and NIPD for NIPD. The Flight Attendant shall bid for “like sequences” in the first
TTS run for that bid period following confirmation of PBS mis-award.
ii. The Flight Attendant shall receive the greater of the trip they should have been
awarded in PBS or the trip the Flight Attendant was awarded in TTS. If the Flight
Attendant is not awarded the sequence out of TTS, open time, the Flight Attendant
shall be pay protected for the trips they would have held on the basis of trips missed.
iii. A Reserve may keep all of their mis-awarded days off, or may, at their option be
awarded corrected days off.
b. Where a programming error affects a substantial number of Flight Attendants in a crew
base, the Company and APFA may agree upon a re-award of the PBS bid.
16. Reserves
a. Reserve lines shall be allocated as part of the monthly PBS process. A Flight Attendant
who may be awarded a line of flying may conditionally bid for a reserve line. Such bid will
be respected provided a Reserve is available who can accept the line of time being
bypassed.
b. Reserves will have a minimum of twelve (12) scheduled days free of duty (“days off”) at
their crew base each bid month. Eight (8) of such days shall be Golden Days and four (4)
shall be Flex Days. Patterns must conform to the following:
i. Each period of days off must have no fewer than two (2) days off and no more than
eight (8) days off.
ii. As an exception to Paragraph D.16.b.i, because of the proration tables in Paragraph
D.16.d, a Reserve may be awarded one (1) day off. If one isolated day off falls on the
last day of the bid period, the Company shall ensure that the Reserve receives at least
one (1) day off on the first day of the following bid period. This may be waived by the
Reserve.
iii. Every Flex Day must immediately follow a reserve day of availability or another Flex
Day. If the Flex Days are grouped with Golden Days, the Flex Days must precede the
Golden Days.

-- 62 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-16
iv. Day off periods may not be separated by less than three (3) days of reserve availability
or by more than six (6) days of reserve. availability. Groups of days of reserve
availability which transition from month to month shall be subject to this limitation.
As an exception, since the Flight Attendant’s status is unknown for the future month,
all reserve Flight Attendants may be awarded/assigned less than three (3) days of
reserve on the last days/s of the Reserve month.
v. Flex days will be awarded in such a manner to allow assignment where necessary. If
a day off is not assignable, such day off must only be a Golden Day.
Example: A Flex Day on the 29th, followed by a Golden Day on the 30th and 31st would
not be acceptable because there would be no RSV days in the bid month to convert if the
Reserve was required to work into their Flex Day.
c. A Reserve who has less than seven (7) vacation days in a bid period shall receive a
minimum of twelve (12) days off. A Reserve who has seven (7) or more days off in a bid
period shall receive days off at a pro-rated rate consistent with the chart in Paragraph
D.16.d.
d. The chart below shall be used to determine the number of days free from duty for a
Reserve who is bidding for or returning to schedule as a Reserve with less than a full bid
period. This chart shall be used to determine the number of days free from duty during
the Reserve’s days of availability in a partial bid period.
30 Day Month 31 Day Month
Available
Days
Prorated
Days Off
Flex
Days
Golden
Days
Available
Days
Prorated
Days Off
Flex
Days
Golden
Days
29-30 12 4 8 30-31 12 4 8
27-28 11 4 7 28-29 11 4 7
24-26 10 3 7 25-27 10 3 7
22-23 9 3 6 22-24 9 3 6
19-21 8 3 5 20-21 8 3 5
17-18 7 2 5 17-19 7 2 5
15-16 6 2 4 13-16 5 2 3
10-14 4 1 3 10-12 4 1 3
7-9 3 1 2 8-9 3 1 2
5-6 2 1 1 5-7 2 1 1
2-4 1 1 0 2-4 1 1 0
1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
17. Flight Attendant Returning From Leave of Absence
a. A Flight Attendant returning from a leave of absence who is current with annual FAA-
required training (CQ) shall be eligible to bid a schedule for the following bid period
provided the Flight Attendant has supplied a return date, and in the case of a medical
leave, a doctor’s note to the Company by 1200 DFW on the 10th of the month prior and
will be processed by to the close of the next business day. To preference Lineholder or
Reserve status, a Flight Attendant must submit their release by 1200 DFW the last
business day of the prior month PBS bidding at her/his crew base.

-- 63 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-17
b. Pay protections and other requirements shall be as specified in Leaves of Absence,
Section 25.K.6.
c.b. A Flight Attendant who is current with annual FAA-required (CQ) and has a return date
for the next bid period or who requires training during the next bid period which will result
in the Flight Attendant being available for less than a full bid period, and who complies
with the timelines and requirements specified in Paragraph D.17.a, may bid in PBS. A
Flight Attendant will subject to the following proration:
i. A Reserve shall have prorated minimum days off and a prorated, minimum line
guarantee (Reserve days multiplied by the Reserve’s daily value of 3:56 or 4:10) and
minimum bid window shall be prorated according to Paragraph D.16.d. The Flight
Attendant’s maximum bid window will not be prorated. She/he may waive minimum
days off. A Flight Attendant awarded/assigned bidding a Reserve line shall be
responsible for flying a prorated schedule.
ii. A Lineholder’s minimum and maximum bid window will not be prorated and will include
any credited time for the month. A Flight Attendant may waive minimum days off.
c. If a Flight Attendant is not current with annual FAA-required training (CQ) at the time of
PBS bidding or will not be current with annual FAA-required training (CQ) in the month
they return, the Flight Attendant will not be able to bid and will be scheduled for training
as provided for in Section 25.K.6.
ii. If training is scheduled and is within seven (7) days of the Flight Attendant’s return
date, the Flight Attendant shall bid a partial line prorated from the date of training,
which shall be inserted as a pre-planned absence along with the associated training
credit.
iii. If the training is not scheduled consistent with Leaves of Absence, Section 25.K.6,
the Flight Attendant shall bid a partial line prorated from her/his return date and shall
be pay protected as specified in Leaves of Absence, Section 25.K.
iv. If the Flight Attendant does not require training, the Flight Attendant shall bid a partial
line prorated from her/his return date.
d. A Flight Attendant on medical leave claiming sick time during a partial bid period shall
have the credit placed on their line as a preplanned absence.
e. If a Lineholder was not able to meet the requirements of Paragraphs 17.a.-c, i.e., they do
not bid PBS, the Lineholder will be permitted to hold an open line and must make a
reasonable effort to pick-up time through TTS and ETB to reach the prorated PBS
minimum and they shall receive a prorated minimum line guarantee. A Reserve will be
awarded a line including their days off commensurate with their seniority.
f. The Flight Attendant will be responsible to demonstrate a reasonable effort to make up
the time. The Flight Attendant may make themself available at their discretion and does
not have to make themself available on a holiday they would not have been scheduled to
fly. A Flight Attendant satisfies the reasonable effort requirement if at any time(s) during
the bid month they make themself available for sequences commensurate with their
seniority, for the equivalent number of duty periods. These duty periods need not be
consecutive.
18. Planned Absences

-- 64 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-18
a. Known planned absences will be placed in the Flight Attendant’s line prior to the PBS
bidding and the applicable credit shall be applied towards the Flight Attendant’s monthly
PBS line credit.
b. All other planned absences, e.g., sick, vacation, Company business, Union business, and
training, will have the credit value as agreed upon in this Agreement.
19. Carry-in and carry-out trips will be paid and credited as defined in Hours of Service, Section
11.
E. LINEHOLDER TRIP TRADE SYSTEM (TTS)
1. General Information –For Lineholders, TTS will provide an electronic means for Flight
Attendants to conduct the following type of transactions within their crew base:
a. Drop sequences (Drop Transaction Bid);
b. Pick-up sequences which remain in open time after the monthly line award or which
subsequently become open due to TTS transactions, sick calls, training, jury duty, Union
business or other events (Pick-up Transaction Bid);
c. Simultaneously drop one sequence and pick-up one sequence from open time or from
another Flight Attendant Lineholder who is simultaneously dropping the desired sequence
during the TTS process (Drop/Pick-up Transaction Bid). TTS will recognize trade
transactions. Such trade transactions shall include an unlimited number of Flight
Attendants Lineholders but may include a limitation on the number of individual
transactions based on possible programming constraints. For example, the following
Drop or Pick-up Transaction Bids would be awarded as a trade:
Flight Attendant Lineholder A wants to drop sequence #1 and bids for sequence #3
Flight Attendant Lineholder B wants to drop sequence #2 and bids for sequence #1
Flight Attendant Lineholder C wants to drop sequence #3 and bids for sequence #2
Award: Flight Attendant Lineholder A - #3, Flight Attendant Lineholder B - #1, Flight
Attendant Lineholder C - #2.
d. Drop multiple sequences (2) in a transaction conditional on picking up another sequence.
e. Add multiple sequences (2) in a transaction conditional on dropping another sequence.
f. A Flight Attendant shall be able to bid and be awarded specific positions in TTS.
g. The Union and the Company agree the JSIC will make all reasonable efforts to include
the following features in TTS given the constraints of the system. If such features are
not available at the date of initial TTS implementation, they may be added into a
subsequent version(s) of TTS when practicable.
i. An exception to the daily limit for transactions which improve a more negative day.
ii. A provision of increasing/decreasing the TTS credit window and projections in the
event of ETB transactions as specified in Paragraph E.3.e.
iii. A provision allowing a Flight Attendant to drop/add multiple sequences in a
transaction conditional on each other.
2. TTS Process Timeline

-- 65 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-19
a. Upon PBS award, Flight Attendants shall input bids for the purposes of the next month’s
TTS process. Such bids will be stored and processed in the TTS Queue at 2300 HBT on
the 21st day of the calendar month.
b. The TTS Queue will close each day at 2300 HBT for sequences which depart on or after
the calendar day beginning at 0000, twenty-five (25) hours later, including any sequences
through the end of the bid period, including transition sequences.
c. Awards will be posted no later than 0400 HBT for the calendar day beginning at 0000,
twenty (20) hours later.
d. TTS will not process trades between bid periods. Transition sequences will be considered
part of the bid period in which they commence for the purpose of TTS.
e. In order to avoid transition conflicts, for a period not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours while
PBS is processing, a Flight Attendant Lineholder shall not be able to pick up, drop or trade
a trip through TTS that touches the last three (3) days of the bid period.
3. TTS Award Parameters and Constraints
a. TTS transactions shall be processed based on seniority.
b. TTS transactions will be processed for sequences that the Flight Attendant is legal to
operate under the terms of the Agreement and in accordance with the parameters
specified in Paragraph D.12.a-f.
c. A Flight Attendant who participates in a TTS transaction shall be deemed to have
acknowledged and accepted the assignment upon the award of the transaction.
d. A Flight Attendant will be able to access the TTS program through a web-based program
at no cost to the Flight Attendant.
e. A Flight Attendant may utilize the web-based TTS program to check their award.
f. A Flight Attendant shall be allowed to drop a sequence in TTS in accordance with
Paragraph 10.H.7, to pick up a red flagged sequence in open time.
g. A Flight Attendant may pick-up or trade to operate an additional sequence during a day
the Flight Attendant is already scheduled for duty to the extent permitted by this
Agreement and in accordance with the parameters specified in Paragraph D.12.a.-f. The
provision allows both double ups, i.e., portions of two (2) sequences combined within the
same duty day, and multiple sequences, i.e., two (2) sequences in the same calendar day
separated by legal crew base rest.
d.h. TTS transactions which result in an increase in the number of Open Sequence Days shall
be subject to a daily and monthly limit. The award of the TTS transaction will not be
approved if approval of that TTS transaction would cause the number of Open Sequence
Days to exceed:
i. Monthly Limit - A monthly limit will be calculated by crew base using the following
formula:
(Total Known Sequence Position Hours x 3%) ÷ Value of a Sequence Day = Monthly
Open Sequence Day Limit

-- 66 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-20
The Value of a Sequence Day will be calculated using the following formula:
Total Known Sequence Position Hours ÷ Total Sequence Days = Value of a Sequence
Day
The monthly limit shall only apply to TTS transaction(s) which result in an increase in
the number of Open Sequence Days. A transaction that is neutral or positive such as
a drop/pick up of a three-day sequence for another three-day sequence shall not be
subject to this limitation.
ii. Daily Limit - A daily limit will be calculated by crew base using the following formula:
Total Monthly Open Sequence Day Limit ÷ Days in the Bid Month = Daily Open
Sequence Day Limit
(a) A transaction shall not cause any day at or below the Daily Limit to exceed the
Daily Limit; and
(b) Note: For purposes of TTS transactions a flight which releases on or after 0000
will be considered to operate on the calendar day. Thus a sequence that releases
at 0015 shall be considered to operate on both calendar days of the duty period
for purposes of Open Sequence Day calculations.
iii. Notwithstanding the above, if coverage is sufficient as determined by Crew Scheduling
in its sole discretion, a higher monthly or daily Open Sequence Day limit may be used
for a TTS run. Upon request of the APFA, the Company shall meet with the National
Scheduling Chair to discuss any concerns regarding the Open Sequence Day
limitations.
Example:
Flight Attendants with seniority numbers of #5 and #6 each enter Drop Transaction
Bids. Either Flight Attendant’s transaction, if awarded, would exceed the number of
Open Sequence Days permitted on that day, and therefore will not be awarded
immediately. If, in a subsequent TTS transaction, a more junior Flight Attendant picks
up an open sequence, thereby reducing Open Sequence Days on the given day, the
Drop Bid of Flight Attendant #5 would be awarded prior to Flight Attendant #6 (Subject
to IT limitations).
i. Trading for More Negative Day(s) in TTS
i. As an exception to the Daily Limit above, a transaction that improves coverage* will be
approved even though the sequence being dropped exceeds the Daily Limit if:
(a) the sum of coverage from the calendar days of the sequence being picked up will
be equal to or worse than the sum of coverage from the calendar days of the
sequence being dropped (including the value of the dropped sequence when
calculating the sum of coverage);
(b) the worst coverage day of the sequence being picked up will be equal to or worse
than each day(s) of the sequence being dropped (including the value of the
dropped sequence when calculating the worst coverage day);
(c) the sequence being picked up must be equal or greater calendar days in duration
to the sequence being dropped; and

-- 67 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-21
(d) such sequence dropped shall not make coverage worse on a Protected Holiday as
described in Paragraph E.3.i.i. and ii.
*Coverage will be defined as the sum of projected reserves available, by each calendar
day of the trip, minus projected open time, as measured by calendar days, for each
calendar day of the trip; negative and positive calendar day values will be determined
with an objectively applied formula and the coverage forecast will take into account
reserve requirements, both historical and projected staffing needs, and the expected
amount of open time. The APFA Scheduling Chair shall have access to review the
positive or negative values associated with specific trip trade awards.
Note: For purposes of TTS transactions a flight which releases on or after 0000 will be
considered to operate on the calendar day. Thus, a sequence that releases at 0015
shall be considered to operate on both calendar days of the duty period for purposes
of Open Sequence Day calculations.
ii. Holiday Restrictions: Flight Attendants using TTS transactions in accordance with
this Paragraph to drop a sequence touching a restricted holiday may only do so
subject to the daily and monthly Open Sequence Day Limitations. The Open Sequence
Day limitation shall only apply on the restricted holiday and not on any day(s)
surrounding the restricted holiday. For the purposes of this Paragraph, restricted days
will include New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving
Day, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Eve.
iii. This exception process will occur after the nightly TTS run and shall be posted with the
TTS awards as specified in Paragraph 10.E.2.c.
4. Lineholder use of TTS
a. A Lineholder may conduct TTS transactions down to a minimum line credit of forty (40)
credited hours in a bid period. No TTS transaction will be approved if it takes the Flight
Attendant to less than forty (40) actual paid and credited hours.
b. TTS will not award a Lineholder’s TTS bid if the award would result in the Lineholder’s
credited hours including any vacation, training, etc., exceeding one hundred fifteen (115)
credited hours of Company Time (including any Vacation, Jury Duty, etc.) in their line.
c. TTS will only process transactions which result in a Lineholder’s projection remaining
within or if already outside of the TTS window, moving closer to their TTS bidding credit
window as specified in Paragraph O.
d. Sequences picked up while utilizing ETB will increase a Lineholder’s projection and their
maximum TTS bidding credit window. Sequences dropped utilizing the ETB will reduce
a Lineholder’s projection and their maximum TTS bidding credit window. The intent of
this paragraph is to minimize the use of TTS to add trips which are subsequently dropped
using the ETB.
Activity Projection
(PROJ)
Maximum
(MAX)
Actual
(ACT)
ETB increase/decrease increase/decrease increase/decrease
TTS/OT increase/decrease n/a increase/decrease
Note: No TTS or ETB transaction will be approved if it takes the Flight Attendant to less than
forty (40) actual paid and credited hours.

-- 68 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-22
e. A Lineholder may conduct TTS transactions that would result in actual flying on a day(s)
pay protected by any other portion of Section 10. The Lineholder will receive pay and
credit for such time.
5. Reserve use of TTS
a. Reserves may utilize the TTS to drop, pick up and trade sequences on Golden Days and
Flex Days.
b. A Reserve with an awarded TTS sequence on Golden Day(s) off will not be assigned a
Reserve sequence that conflicts with their TTS sequence unless assignment is necessary
according to the Priority of Trip Assignment language specified in Reserve Duty, Section
12.O. If a Reserve’s TTS sequence is dropped by Crew Scheduling on a Golden Day,
the Reserve will be provided pay protection for the TTS sequence up to the point the
Reserve can be split back onto the TTS sequence. The Reserve may be split back onto
the TTS sequence or drop the portion of the TTS sequence.
c. If a Reserve’s TTS sequence is dropped by Crew Scheduling on a Flex Day, there will be
no pay protection and no obligation to split the Reserve back on a TTS sequence, unless
provided pay protection in Paragraph 10.K. and 10.L.
d. Once released from Reserve duty into days off or at the conclusion of their RAP prior to
a day off, a Reserve may utilize TTS to drop, pick up and trade sequences. The Reserve
will be subject to the rest requirements of the FARs, but no less than ten (10) hours from
release to report.
e. A Reserve who is bidding a TTS trip prior to being released into their Flex Day or a Golden
Day, may be awarded a TTS trip(s) to originate on the Reserve’s first day off no earlier
than 1000 HBT and released on the Reserve’s last day off at the Flight Attendant’s home
crew base no later than 1600 HBT. A Reserve who does not receive minimum home base
rest as a result of a TTS trip before or after available days shall reduce their home base
rest down to FAR minimums, if necessary.
f. A Reserve picking up a sequence through TTS on a Golden Day, Flex Day or a day of
Reserve Availability once released into such day pursuant to Paragraph E.5.a. will receive
pay no credit for such time above their minimum guarantee.
g. A Reserve may conduct TTS transactions that would result in actual flying on a day(s) pay
protected by any other portion of Section 10. The Reserve will receive pay, no credit for
such time.
h. A Reserve will have a TTS maximum of thirty (30) hours.
i. Sequences picked up, traded, or dropped in TTS on Reserve days off in accordance with
Paragraph 5.a above will not impact the Reserve TTS maximum. TTS will only process
transactions which result in a Reserve’s projection remaining within or if already outside
of the TTS window, moving closer to their TTS bidding credit window. A Red Flag
sequence picked up in TTS will increase the TTS maximum.
j. Sequences picked up while utilizing ETB will increase a Reserve’s projection and their
maximum TTS bidding credit window. Sequences dropped utilizing ETB will reduce a
Reserve’s projection and their maximum TTS bidding credit window in accordance with
the chart below. The intent of this paragraph is to minimize the use of TTS to add trips
which are subsequently dropped using ETB.

-- 69 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-23
Activity Projection
(PROJ)
Maximum
(MAX)
Actual
(ACT)
ETB increase/decrease increase/decrease increase/decrease
TTS/OT increase/decrease n/a increase/decrease
F. POST TTS DAILY PROCESSING
1. TTS Unsuccessful Bidders List (UBL)
a. A list of Flight Attendants Lineholders who elect to be passed to the Unsuccessful Bidders
List (UBL) Daily Scheduling because their bid was not awarded in TTS and their request
originates on the first day of the TTS bid processing date range will be compiled upon
conclusion of the TTS run. The TTS program will have an election the Flight Attendant
Lineholder may select if they wish to be placed on the Unsuccessful Bidders List for the
sequence. The Unsuccessful Bidders List shall be used by Crew Daily Scheduling for
manual processing.
b. Daily bids will be processed by using the Unsuccessful Bidders List to offer sequences to
Flight Attendants Lineholders in seniority order, except as provided for in Paragraph F.5.
c. Drop/Pick Up Transaction (with overlap)
If the Flight Attendant’s Lineholder’s bid includes a request for a sequence on the first day
of the TTS bid processing date range and overlaps a sequence held by the Flight
Attendant Lineholder on a subsequent day(s), the bid will be subject to the daily and
monthly Open Sequence Day limitations as specified in Paragraph E.3.h.
d. Pick Up/Drop Transaction/Drop (without overlap)
If the Flight Attendant’s Lineholder’s bid includes a request for a sequence originating on
the first day of the TTS bid processing date range and includes a drop for a trip on a
subsequent day(s) that does not overlap, such request, the bid will be subject to the daily
and monthly Open Sequence Day limitations as specified in Paragraph E.3.h.
e. Drop Transaction
If the Flight Attendants Lineholder’s bid includes a request for a drop transaction on the
first day of the TTS bid processing date range and their drop transaction bid was not
awarded during TTS, if the Flight Attendant Lineholder so elects, the drop request will be
moved to Crew Daily Scheduling. If open time subsequently falls below the Open
Sequence Day limitations as specified in Paragraph E.3.h, the request to drop will be
awarded in seniority order among those Flight Attendants passed on to Crew Scheduling.
f. Pick Up/Drop Transaction (Originating same day)
A Flight Attendant shall be able to request to drop a trip originating on the first day of the
TTS bid processing date range and pick up a trip originating on the same day. The trip
picked up must be equal to or greater than the calendar days of the trip being dropped.
The request(s) will be processed in UBL until 1500 HBT the day prior.
g. Out of Base UBL Pick Up
A Lineholder or Reserve on days off may pick up a sequence on UBL from another crew
base only after in-base Lineholders and Reserves on days off have been processed and
before processing in accordance with 12.K.2. and 12.K.3. Once the out of base Flight
Attendant has been awarded the trip it may not be traded or dropped.
h. Less Than Minimum Call-Out UBL List

-- 70 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-24
A Lineholder or Reserve on days off may pick up a sequence in UBL within two (2) hours
prior to scheduled departure (three (3) hours in co-terminal bases). In-base Lineholders
and Reserves on days off will be processed before out of base LMCO Lineholders and
Reserves on days off and prior to processing in 12.K.3.
i. A Reserve may utilize UBL in accordance with E.5.
2. General
a. The Company shall display a daily electronic list of all open sequences by crew base.
b. The Company shall electronically display a daily list of all flying assignments for that crew
base. Such list shall remain available within the constraints of the system. The Company
shall also continue to provide individual Flight Attendants access to their history
electronically and their through ePays (or equivalent) and sequence history for a period
of thirty-six (36) months. Additionally, the Company shall post the sequence package for
a period of six (6) months.
c. Following each UBL run, the Company shall provide a run summary including sequence(s)
awarded (sequence number, seniority, name, base, employee number, position,
language, and purser qualification of the awarded Flight Attendant). The report shall
include the UBL run ID, time sequence(s) opened, and sequence(s) not awarded. The
Company shall also provide any sequences transferred out of base and the time and base
to which the sequence was transferred in the run summary, if possible, but if not in a daily
report.
3. Processing Timeline
a. Sequences that open between 2300 HBT and 0400 HBT: Sequences which open after
2300 HBT each day which originate on the first day of the TTS bid processing date range
will be processed using the Unsuccessful Bidder List after the TTS awards are posted no
later than 0400 HBT.
b. Processing after 0400 HBT: Once the Unsuccessful Bidders List has been processed,
any sequences that subsequently become available prior to two (2) hours (three (3) hours
in co-terminal bases) before departure of the sequence will be processed immediately
from the Unsuccessful Bidders List. If the trip is not awarded from the Unsuccessful
Bidders List, the sequence will then be assigned to a Reserve according to the provisions
of Reserve Duty, Section 12. Sequences which become available within two (2) hours
(three (3) hours in co-terminal bases) prior to departure of the sequence will not be
processed from the LMCO Unsuccessful Bidders List. If the sequence is not awarded
from the LMCO Unsuccessful Bidders List, the sequence will then be processed but will
be awarded to a Reserve, according to the provisions of Reserve Duty, as specified in
Section 12.
c. Unsuccessful Bidders List Applicable to the Origination Day of Sequence: Sequences will
be processed utilizing the Unsuccessful Bidders List applicable to the origination day of
the sequence. For example, on Monday, Crew Scheduling would use the Unsuccessful
Bidders List from Saturday’s TTS run to process sequences that originate on Monday.
d. Sequences Originating after the First Day of the TTS Bid Processing Range: Sequences
which open after 2300 HBT each day (Post TTS period), and originate after the first day
of the TTS bid processing date range will not be awarded pursuant to this Paragraph but,
rather, will remain as open time for bidding during the following day’s TTS process.

-- 71 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-25
e. If there are no bidders or Flight Attendants on the Unsuccessful Bidders List, including
Late Bidders, the sequence will be processed according to the provisions of Reserve Duty,
Section 12.
4. Processing Rules
a. Daily Scheduling will process bids according to the specifications of Paragraphs D.12 and
E.3.
b. Crew Scheduling will award a Flight Attendant, in seniority order, a sequence for which
the Flight Attendant is listed on the Unsuccessful Bidders List. If a Flight Attendant no
longer chooses to be on the Unsuccessful Bidders List, the Flight Attendantshe/he is
responsible for removing their name from the list. The Company will electronically notify
The Flight Attendant for any award prior to 1900 HBT. Once the sequence is awarded,
the Flight Attendant is will be responsible for such sequence and no confirmation is
needed.
c. A Flight Attendant awarded a sequence after 1900 HBT will receive an electronic
notification of their award. If the Flight Attendant does not electronically acknowledge the
award, Crew Scheduling will call to confirm their award. verifying award. through the Crew
Management System or other technology-based system prior to 1700 HBT. Once the
sequence is awarded, the Flight Attendant is responsible for such sequence and no
confirmation is needed A Flight Attendant awarded a sequence after 1500 HBT will
receive positive phone contact by Crew Schedule of her/his award. If notified, a Flight
Attendant is required to confirm receipt. Once the sequence is confirmed, the Flight
Attendant is responsible for such sequence. If the Flight Attendant does not confirm the
assignment by answering the phone, Crew Scheduling will remove the Flight Attendant’s
name from the UBL list and shall move on to the next most senior Flight Attendant
Lineholder on the Unsuccessful Bidders List requesting such sequence. The Union and
the Company may agree to an electronic method of notification.
d. If a Flight Attendant Lineholder is on another trip at the time the sequence opens, the
Flight Attendant Lineholder will not be passed over and such sequence will be awarded.
Once the sequence is awarded, the Flight Attendant is responsible for such sequence and
no confirmation is needed.
5. Late Bidders
A Flight Attendant during the post TTS period may bid for a sequence. A Late Bidder will be
added to the bottom of the Unsuccessful Bidders List and their bid will be processed according
to their position on the list for sequences that come available. If the Flight Attendant’s request
to be considered a Late Bidder is received after the initial process of unsuccessful bidders at
0400 HBT on the day immediately following the TTS closing, the Flight Attendant will be
processed in seniority order amongst all unsuccessful bidders. The award of such transactions
for late bidders will be subject to rules in Paragraph F.4.
6. Position Move-up
A Flight Attendant who has been awarded a sequence may enter a bid or persistent bid in
TTS to change to another position on the same sequence. A Flight Attendant may indicate
their election to move such bid to the Unsuccessful Bidders List. Within a two (2) hour period
prior to report, a request to move to a premium position will be accommodated on any
particular sequence. The Reserve will be assigned the vacant position.

-- 72 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-26
7. Inverse Assignment
When it becomes necessary to assign a Flight Attendant to open time or supplemental
coverage, it will be done in accordance with Reserve Duty, Section 12.O. Priority of
sequence assignments will be made by positive contact to the Flight Attendant being assigned.
G. ELECTRONIC TRADE BOARD (ETB)
1. The Company will provide a real time, electronic method of picking up, dropping, and trading
sequences between Flight Attendants on a first come/first served basis. The ETB will not be
used to distribute or trade open time. The following provisions will apply.
2. General Use of the ETB
a. All sequence transactions through the ETB for the next month will be processed on the
22nd of the calendar month at 0400 HBT and will be awarded in first come/first served
order.
b. ETB transactions will not be processed between the time the TTS bid closes at 2300 HBT
and is awarded at 0400 HBT.
c. In order to avoid transition conflicts, for a period not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours while
PBS is processing, a Flight Attendant shall not be able to pick up, drop or trade a trip that
touches the last three (3) days of the bid period.
d. All ETB transactions will be available for processing up until sign-in time for the sequence.
If the sequence has not been picked up, the Flight Attendant will be responsible for flying
that sequence. This restriction shall not apply to Paragraph P.
e. The ETB system will include a real time acceptance message that requires a Flight
Attendant picking up a sequence on the ETB to accept the sequence. A Flight Attendant
requesting to drop or trade a sequence remains responsible for that sequence until
approval for the drop or trade has been granted. Once a sequence is added, it becomes
part of the Flight Attendant’s line. Conversely, once a sequence is dropped, it is no longer
part of the Flight Attendant’s line.
f. ETB transactions will be processed for sequences that the Flight Attendant is legal to
operate under the terms of the Agreement and in accordance with the parameters
specified in Paragraph D.12.
g. Flight Attendants will be able to access the ETB through a web-based program at no cost
to the Flight Attendant.
h. The Company will implement a technology-based system where a Flight Attendant can
confirm a trip drop or trade.
i. A Flight Attendant can combine multiple sequences as specified in Paragraph D.12.
j. A Lineholder or a Reserve on a day off that is being pay protected in Section 10 may
conduct ETB transactions outside the footprint of the originally scheduled pay protected
sequence (sequence at the time of assignment/award). Any ETB sequence picked up
within the footprint of the originally scheduled pay protected sequence will negate pay
protection. The Lineholder will receive pay and credit for such time. The Reserve Flight
Attendant will receive pay and no credit for such time.

-- 73 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-27
3. Lineholder Use of the ETB
a. Within the same crew base, Lineholders may drop sequences to other Flight Attendants,
pick up sequences from other Flight Attendants on days off or on vacation days, and/or
trade sequences with other Flight Attendants using the ETB.
b. Lineholders will be permitted to drop down to forty (40) credited hours in a bid period by
trading with other Flight Attendant(s) or by dropping sequences to other Flight Attendants
through the ETB.
c. There is no cap on the number of pay hours a Flight Attendant may gain through picking
up sequences from other Flight Attendants through the ETB. Sequences picked up from
the ETB will increase a Lineholder’s projection and their maximum TTS bidding credit
window. Sequences dropped utilizing the ETB will reduce a Lineholder’s projection and
their maximum TTS bidding credit window.
4. Reserve Use of the ETB
a. Within the same crew base, Reserves may utilize the ETB to drop, pick up and trade
sequences on Golden Days, Flex Days, or on vacation days, or a day of Reserve
Availability once released. The Reserve will receive pay, no credit for such time above
their minimum guarantee.
b. A Reserve with an awarded ETB sequence on Golden Day(s) will not be assigned a
sequence that conflicts with their ETB sequence in Future or Daily Scheduling unless
assignment is necessary according to 12.K.2., or the Priority of Trip Assignment language
specified in Reserve Duty, Section 12.O. If a Reserve’s ETB sequence on a Golden Day
is dropped by Crew Scheduling, the Reserve will be provided pay protection for the ETB
sequence up to the point they can be split back onto the ETB sequence. The Reserve
may be split back onto the ETB sequence or drop the portion of the ETB sequence.
c. If a Reserve’s ETB sequence is dropped by Crew Scheduling on a Flex Day, there will be
no pay protection and no obligation to split the Reserve back on the ETB sequence, unless
provided pay protection in Paragraphs 10.K. and 10.L.
c.d. Within the same crew base, a Reserve may utilize the ETB to drop, pick up and trade
sequences on Flex Days once released from reserve duty into such days off or at the
conclusion of their RAP prior to a day off, a Reserve may utilize the ETB to drop, pick up
and trade sequences on a Reserve Day. The Reserve will be subject to the rest
requirements of the FARs, but no less than ten (10) eight (8) hours and thirty (30) minutes
from release to report.
d.e. Within the same crew base, a Reserve who is bidding an ETB trip prior to being
released into their Flex Day or a Reserve bidding an ETB trip on a Golden Day, may be
awarded an ETB trip(s) to originate on the Reserve’s first day off no earlier than 1000 HBT
and released on the Reserve’s last day off at the Flight Attendant's home crew base no
later than 1600 1800 HBT. A Reserve who does not receive minimum home base rest as
a result of an ETB trip before or after available days shall reduce their home base rest
down to FAR minimums, if necessary
e. Pay and Credit
A Reserve picking up a sequence through the ETB on a Golden Day, Flex Day or a day
of Reserve Availability once released into such day pursuant to Paragraph G.4.b, or on

-- 74 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-28
a vacation day will receive pay no credit for such time above her/his minimum
guarantee.
H. RED FLAGGING OPEN TIME
1. At any time prior to departure, Crew Scheduling may red flag a sequence/position in open
time. Red flagged sequences shall be paid at the rate of one hundred and fifty percent (150%)
and credited at one hundred percent (100%). Once a sequence is flagged it shall retain its
premium for any pay protection provided within Section 10. If a Flight Attendant calls in sick
for a red flagged sequence, no red flag premium will be applied.
2. Sequences which carry a red flag premium will be indicated as such in the Crew Management
system. Flight Attendants may exclusively bid for red flagged sequences within TTS.
3. The premium pay rate shall not be paid for any red flag sequence that is assigned to a Reserve
on days of availability.
4. A Reserve who picks up a red flagged sequence on their days off shall receive pay as
referenced in Paragraph H.1.
5. A Flight Attendant may exceed their monthly TTS maximum to pick up a red flagged sequence.
6. Once a sequence has been red flagged in TTS, Crew Scheduling may not remove the red flag
designation and its corresponding premium at any time prior to sequence award or
assignment, up until after 0400 2100 2300 HBT one day two days prior to the departure of the
sequence. Once the TTS daily processing occurs on any day, the Company may not change
the red flag designation until the TTS awards are complete for that day. Once the red flag
sequence has been awarded the red flag premium may not be removed.
6.7. Red flag premiums for transactions in TTS will be applied as follows:
Transactions will
be Awarded
Sequence Being
Dropped
Sequence Being
Picked Up
Red Flag Pay Premium
Pickup only Red Flag Yes
Trade (all scenarios) Red Flag Red Flag Yes
Trade (no overlap or
only overlaps 1 day)*
Non-Red Flag Red Flag Yes
Trade (1 day for 1
day with same
origination date or
overlaps 2+ days)*
Non-Red Flag Red Flag No;
Sequence will be
awarded, Red Flag
indicator will be
removed, and the
sequence will no longer
receive Red Flag
premium unless Crew
Scheduling redesignates
the sequence as Red
Flag
*Overlap applies to a calendar day (0000-2359 HBT)

-- 75 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-29
8. A Flight Attendant may bid generic or specific “Red Flag Only” sequence(s) and position(s) in
TTS.
I. INVOLUNTARY ASSIGNMENT
Involuntary assignments shall only be made according to the Priority of Open Trip Assignment
language specified in Reserve Duty, Section 12.O.
J. RESCHEDULING
1. General Provisions
a. The provisions of Paragraph J are intended to allow for orderly rescheduling procedures
in the event of last-minute operational irregularities that have a high probability of resulting
in sequence delays or cancellations. These provisions are not intended to be utilized in
such a manner so as to effectively require a Lineholder to serve as a Reserve.
b. In the event a Lineholder Flight Attendant loses three (3) her/his entire month's trip
selection or more full sequences (not pay protected by Section 10) balance of her/his
month's schedule because of a schedule change, including natural disaster and/or
extraordinary circumstances, the following shall apply: A Lineholder Flight Attendant
whose pay projection falls below her/his monthly guarantee as a result of the Schedule
Change shall be required to make a “reasonable effort” as defined in order to receive pay
protection under this Paragraph. D.19.d.i, .D.19.d to make up the time. A Lineholder Flight
Attendant may choose to waive pay protection for all or some of the sequences and be
released from any obligation to remain available to the Company. This provision is to
address the major issues specified above and is not intended to apply to normal
scheduling changes affecting individual Flight Attendants.
In order to fulfill the “reasonable effort”, a Lineholder will be required to satisfy all of i. and
ii. below:
i. Bid for “like sequences” starting with the first TTS run for the applicable bid month
following notification of the full sequence cancellation. A like sequence (comparable
to the cancelled sequence) shall have:
a) comparable check-in/out times (at least one (1) hour before or after the original
check-in/out times); and
b) same number of day(s); and
c) Domestic for Domestic or IPD for IPD or NIPD for NIPD.
ii. Make themself available in TTS for the equivalent number of TTS runs equal to the
number of duty periods in cancelled sequence(s). A Lineholder may ballot for multiple
sequences in 1 (one) TTS run.
iii. A Lineholder may choose to waive pay protection for all or some of the sequences
and be released from any obligation to remain available to the Company.
iv. A Flight Attendant who bids for like sequences shall be pay protected for the value of
the sequences lost.

-- 76 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-30
b.c. The intent of Paragraph J is that a Flight Attendant should be permitted to operate the
sequences that they were awarded through PBS, TTS, ETB, etc. Consequently, a Flight
Attendant should not be removed from their sequence unless all options have been
utilized to prevent a cancellation or delay, including assignment to any available Reserve
or Standby Reserve.
c.d. A Reserve on a TTS/UBL or an ETB trip will be considered a Lineholder for the purposes
of Section 10.
d.e. The term “rescheduled” as used in Section 10 means any and all deviations from a Flight
Attendant’s awarded sequence, as originally published, with the following exceptions:
i. Cancelled segments that occur at any time during the sequence without requiring the
Flight Attendant to operate a different sequence. However, the cancellation of a
scheduled flight and the creation of a new unpublished flight between the same city
pairs within four (4) hours of the original scheduled departure time does not constitute
a cancelled segment and would require payment to the Flight Attendant for the
cancelled flight unless the Flight Attendant has requested to be released from duty in
accordance with Scheduling, Section 10.J.8. Further, flights scheduled as extra
sections more than forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the cancelled flight are not
considered “new unpublished flights” for purposes of this Paragraph. If an extra section
is created less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to the cancellation, the extra section
shall require payment to the Flight Attendant for the cancelled flight unless the
Company can demonstrate that the creation of this “new unpublished flight” is not
related to the cancellation.
ii. Deadheading to position a crew because of a cancelled flight(s) to continue a series of
flight(s) on the original sequence.
iii. Diversions for fuel, weather or emergency if the Flight Attendant next proceeds to the
originally released destination prior to the diversion or to the next destination on the
original sequence.
iv. Delays of scheduled departure/arrival times which do not result in operating to different
city pairs than were contained in the original sequence.
v. Bypassing cancelled flight segments in the affected Flight Attendant’s sequence,
provided that another flight has not been cancelled pursuant to Paragraph J.1.e.i.
which would be covered by the affected Flight Attendant.
Example: Duty Period 1 – Original Sequence: PHL-CLT-TPA. Both flight segments
cancel and Duty Period 1 becomes PHL-TPA.
2. Prior to Report Time
The following provisions will apply to the Lineholder holding the sequence at the time of
modification or reschedule:
a. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph J.1, for the purposes of adjusting sequences after
publication, e.g., equipment change, block times, departure or arrival times, or
cancellations, a sequence may be changed prior to report.
b. If such change involves an adjustment to the schedule between publication of sequences
and up to three (3) days prior to commencement of the affected sequence(s), which

-- 77 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-31
results in different city pairs, layover cities, or causes the sequences to operate on
additional days or to not operate on a day(s), the Lineholder shall be electronically notified
and shall not be required to accept such sequence in which event the Lineholder shall
forfeit all applicable pay protection for that sequence(s) and all line guarantees
associated with that release.
c. If such change involves an adjustment to the schedule within three (3) days prior to
commencement of the affected sequence and prior to report, which results in different
city pairs, layover cities, or causes the sequences to not operate on a day(s), the
Lineholder will receive an electronic notification shall be notified, and with Company
consent, the Flight Attendant shall not be required to accept such sequence in which
event the Lineholder shall forfeit all applicable pay protection for that sequence(s) and all
line guarantees associated with that release. Any such adjustment to the schedule shall
be according to the provisions of Paragraph J.3, and other provisions of Paragraph J.
d. In no case shall the Lineholder be required to report for a sequence earlier than originally
scheduled. If the rescheduled departure is earlier than the originally scheduled departure,
duty time will commence concurrent with Domestic or International report times based on
the earlier departure time. If replaced, such Flight Attendant shall receive the crew
substitution protections afforded in Paragraph J.10.
e. In the event the sequence is rescheduled to depart more than one (1) hour later than
originally scheduled, Crew Scheduling shall electronically notify attempt to call the Flight
Attendant Lineholder to advise them of the rescheduled report time and the report time
will be in accordance with Section 10.J.11.a..
3. After Report but prior to Sequence’s Origination
a. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph J.1, once a Flight Attendant crew reports for a
sequence, the Company may reschedule a Flight Attendant crew to maintain scheduled
operations or substitute another crew on a part of the sequence to maintain scheduled
operations in accordance with published timetables. A Flight Attendant rescheduled will
receive an electronic notification. If the Flight Attendant does not electronically
acknowledge the reschedule, Crew Scheduling will call to advise of the reschedule.
b. The Company will make every reasonable effort to reschedule the entire crew together.
However, in extenuating circumstances, the Company may split a Flight Attendant crew if
such split is required in order to maintain schedule. The opportunity to be rescheduled
shall be offered to the Flight Attendants in seniority order. If insufficient Flight Attendants
volunteer to be rescheduled, assignments will be made in inverse seniority.
c. In the event a Flight Attendant crew reports for the origination of a sequence and such
sequence is canceled in its entirety, the individual Flight Attendants in such crew may be
rescheduled in the event that such rescheduling is required to prevent a delay or
cancellation. The opportunity to be rescheduled shall be offered to the Flight Attendants
in seniority order. If insufficient Flight Attendants volunteer to be rescheduled, assignment
will be made in inverse seniority order.
d. A Flight Attendant, after the initial notification of a disruption to their sequence, will be
electronically advised of their rescheduled sequence/assignment prior to four (4) hours
after the originally scheduled sequence sign-in time or three (3) hours after the disruption
is known, whichever is later.

-- 78 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-32
4. After Origination (Departure of First Flight)
a. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph J.1, once a Flight Attendant crew has originated a
sequence, the Company may reschedule such crew to maintain schedule or substitute
another crew on a part of the sequence to maintain scheduled operations in accordance
with published timetables. A Flight Attendant rescheduled will receive an electronic
notification. If the Flight Attendant does not electronically acknowledge the reschedule,
Crew Scheduling will call to advise of the reschedule Such rescheduled crew will be
advised of their remaining duty assignment for that day and for the balance of the
sequence within three (3) hours after the disruption is known. If not assigned replacement
flying within the window above, the Flight Attendant shall be released for that duty day.
b. It is the intent of Paragraph J.4.a, the Company will make every reasonable effort to
reschedule the entire crew together. However, in extenuating circumstances, the
Company may split a Flight Attendant crew if such split is required in order to maintain
schedule. A typical example of a situation where the entire crew may not be rescheduled
together would be as follows:
Example: Two (2) Flight Attendant crews are on an overnight in CDG (a 777-300 767
crew with six (6) Flight Attendants and a 777-200 an A330 crew). with nine (9) Flight
Attendants). If a the “A” Flight Attendant on the 777-200 767 sequence becomes ill just
prior to their flight’s departure, a Flight Attendant from the 777-300 A330 crew, if legal to
do so, may be rescheduled onto the 777-200 767 sequence, thus splitting the 777-300
767 crew and preserving the integrity of the schedule.
c. A rescheduled crew, after the initial notification of a disruption to their sequence will be
electronically advised of their remaining duty assignment for that day and for the balance
of the sequence within three (3) hours after the disruption is known. If not assigned
replacement flying within the window above, the Flight Attendant shall be released for that
duty day.
5. If a Reserve has been removed from a sequence prior to report time consistent with
Reserve Duty, Section 12.O, the pay protections specified therein shall apply. If the
sequence cancels in its entirety, the Reserve may be assigned to a RAP pursuant to Section
12.
6. If a Reserve’s sequence cancels in its entirety or the Reserve is removed as specified in 12.M,
the Reserve will be subject to the provisions of Section 12. and no RAP was originally
assigned and no sequence exists for assignment, the Reserve shall assume duty for the
remainder of the RAP in which the sequence originally reported. If the sequence originally
reported in multiple RAPs, Crew Schedule shall assign the Reserve to the earlier RAP.
7. Return to Crew Base
At the time of rescheduling, the Company shall make every effort to schedule such Flight
Attendant crew to arrive back in their crew base no later than the time they were originally
scheduled to return. In no event will the Flight Attendant(s) be rescheduled beyond her/his
originally scheduled return time unless the Company has unsuccessfully made every effort to
provide Reserve coverage to continue the sequence from that point without causing a delay
or cancellation. These provisions shall not be used to eliminate deadheading where no delay
is involved.
8. More Than a Three (3) Hour Delay (After Report)

-- 79 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-33
When a flight departure is delayed for more than three (3) hours, the Flight Attendant who is
scheduled for such flight shall not be required to stand by and shall be relieved of duty at their
request, provided that other Flight Attendants are available to replace them without increasing
the delay. A Flight Attendant desiring to be released shall remain on duty until the relief Flight
Attendant reports for duty. A Flight Attendant exercising this option shall forfeit any pay and
credit that may be accumulated under any other Paragraph in Section 10.
9. Equipment Substitution
a. When different equipment is substituted prior to departure for an entire sequence, and
positions are available in open time, only the required bid complement number of Flight
Attendant positions for the downgraded equipment will be staffed. If such sequence is
staffed with a full complement at the time of the equipment substitution, only the required
number of Flight Attendant positions for the downgraded equipment will be required and
the most senior Flight Attendant(s) will be released and receive pay and credit at their
hourly rate and all premiums, if applicable.
b. When different equipment is substituted for part of the sequence after departure the Flight
Attendant complement will be based depend on the number of bid positions for the
remaining working legs on the largest aircraft remaining on the sequence. When the crew
is operating the smaller aircraft, the most senior Flight Attendant(s) exceeding the required
bid complement will occupy the jumpseat(s), if available, and will deadhead only if there
is an insufficient number of jumpseats. available. In the event fewer jumpseats are
available than there are Flight Attendants who have reported for the sequence, The junior
Flight Attendant(s) on the sequence, regardless of bid position, will fly the sequence and
receive pay and credit at their hourly rate, and all premiums, if applicable. Any excess
Flight Attendants that exceed the bid complement for the remaining working legs on the
largest aircraft remaining on the sequence will be released, based on seniority, when
transiting their crew base and The most senior Flight Attendant(s) shall be compensated
for the sequence at their hourly rate and all applicable premiums. At Company option,
the original Flight Attendant may be required to return to her/his original sequence at any
time prior to the termination of such sequence, but for this provision to have effect, such
Flight Attendant must be notified of such requirement at the time she/he is notified of the
equipment substitution.
c. If a sequence transits back through crew base and the Flight Attendant(s) is no longer
required to fulfill the crew complement for the balance of the sequence, the downgrade
provisions of Paragraphs J.9.a.- b, will be applied based on the departure time of the
portion of the sequence which transits through the crew base.
10. A Flight Attendant, who is rescheduled in accordance with Paragraphs J.2, J.3, or J.4, will be
guaranteed the pay value of their originally awarded or assigned sequence, as published in
the electronic bid package or actual time, whichever is greater, including canceled segments.
A sequence which does not appear on the electronic bid package, e.g., ferry flights, extra
sections, etc., will be pay protected to the posted value of the sequence prior to its award or
assignment. This pay protection will also apply to a Flight Attendant who is replaced as a
result of a crew or equipment substitution.
11. Notification of Delay
a. When a Flight Attendant's originating trip of the day is delayed and they are notified of this
delay and acknowledges the notification, their prior to leaving for the airport, duty day
begins at their rescheduled report time. If Crew Schedule is unable to reach the Flight
Attendant does not acknowledge before she/he departs for the notification field, and they
report for the original departure time, their duty day begins at the originally scheduled

-- 80 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-34
report time. However, if the electronic notification is call is placed by Crew Schedule three
(3) hours or more prior to the originally scheduled departure time, they and the Flight
Attendant cannot be contacted, will be considered notified. Crew Scheduling will use its
best efforts to notify a Flight Attendant affected by a delay as soon as practicable after
Crew Scheduling becomes aware of the delay.
b. If If a courtesy call notifying a Flight Attendant is electronically notified that her/his trip has
been cancelled in its entirety has been received less than three (3) hours prior to report
that their trip has been cancelled in its entirety, , call out pay as specified in Hours of
Service, Section 11, would apply. However, if the Flight Attendant will be paid has not
departed her/his residence, then the three (3) hours flight time call out pay, no credit
regardless specified in Hours of whether the Flight Attendant reported to the airport.
Service would not apply.
12. Changeover Sequence
a. A changeover sequence is defined as a replacement sequence that modifies an originally
awarded or assigned carryover sequence and is placed on a Flight Attendant’s schedule
no later than the tenth (10th) day of the calendar month in which the trip originates.
b. A Flight Attendant holding a carryover sequence which subsequently becomes a
changeover sequence shall not be required to accept such sequence which results in
different city pairs, layover cities, or causes the sequence to operate on additional days
or to not operate on a day(s). A Flight Attendant electing to be removed from a
changeover sequence must electronically notify Crew Scheduling by no later than 1100
DFW on the fifteenth (15th) of the calendar month for which the trip originates. The Flight
Attendant shall forfeit all applicable pay protection for the sequence and all line
guarantees associated with the dropped sequence.
c. A Flight Attendant that holds the carryover sequence at the time it becomes a changeover
sequence and flies the changeover sequence will be pay protected to the value of the
original carryover sequence scheduled hours at the time of assignment pursuant to
Paragraph 10.J.10. As an exception to the requirement to hold and fly the carryover
sequence which subsequently becomes a changeover sequence, a Flight Attendant that
holds the qualifying changeover sequence but is removed pursuant to another provision
that requires pay protection (e.g., 10.K. Illegal Through No Fault) will be pay protected
based on the value of the original carryover sequence.
d. A Flight Attendant not holding the carryover sequence at the time it becomes a
changeover sequence will not be eligible for the pay protections based on the original
carryover sequence value. In this case, pay protections for the changeover sequence
will be based on the value of the sequence at the time it was placed on the Flight
Attendant’s schedule.
K. ILLEGAL THROUGH NO FAULT
1. If, after the time of award, a Flight Attendant becomes illegal (contractual or FAR) through no
fault of their own to originate their sequence, such Flight Attendant shall have the option of
splitting on to the sequence, once they become legal at the point the sequence passes through
her/his crew base. If the sequence does not pass through the Flight Attendant’s crew base,
the Flight Attendant will be permitted to pick up the sequence at the point where they become
legal. However, if it is impractical for the Company to split the Flight Attendant on to the
sequence, the Flight Attendant shall be released from the sequence and paid the value of the
originally scheduled sequence. To receive pay protections under this Paragraph, the Flight

-- 81 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-35
Attendant must be FAR Illegal, a Lineholder or a Reserve on an ETB/TTS/UBL trip, except as
provided for in Paragraph K.1.b.
Example: A Flight Attendant arrives in late Monday night from their sequence and becomes
FAR illegal for the following two-day sequence on Tuesday/Wednesday PHX-LGA-RON-LGA-
PHX. It would be impractical for the Company to deadhead the Flight Attendant to LGA fly
the LGA-PHX segment as the Company already had the sequence covered by another Flight
Attendant. In this situation, the Flight Attendant would not be permitted to split on the trip and
would receive pay and credit for the entire sequence as it was flown by a substitute crew.
a. For sequences other than such Flight Attendant’s last sequence or series of sequences
of the bid month, such Flight Attendant shall be paid and credited for any portion(s) of the
sequence flown by a substitute crew, up to the point where the Flight Attendant splits back
on or could have split back on.
b. As an exception to Paragraph K., a Reserve awarded a sequence via the ETB/TTS/UBL
on Flex Days and subsequently awarded/assigned a sequence by Crew Scheduling on
Flex Days prior to such ETB/TTS/UBL trip will not be afforded pay protection. A Reserve
awarded a sequence on a Flex Day(s) shall only be assigned a sequence in accordance
with Paragraph G.4.
c. If such sequence was the Flight Attendant’s last sequence or series of sequences of the
bid month, the Flight Attendant shall be paid and credited in accordance with Paragraph
L.4.
2. Illegal After Time of Award But Prior to Origination
a. If, after the time of award but prior to origination, a Flight Attendant remains legal for the
origination of their sequence but is projected to become illegal through no fault of their
own to complete such sequence, the Flight Attendant must originate the sequence and
split off at the latest point it passes through their crew base and they remain legal. If the
sequence does not pass through the Flight Attendant’s crew base, prior to them and
remains legal. If the sequence does not pass through her/his crew base, prior to her/him
becoming illegal, the Flight Attendant will be required to split the sequence at the point
prior to when they become illegal.
b. Such Flight Attendant shall be paid and credited for any portion(s) of the sequence flown
by a substitute crew after the point where the Flight Attendant splits off. In the event such
sequence is the Flight Attendant’s last sequence or series of sequences of the bid month,
the Flight Attendant shall be paid and credited for the remainder of the sequence
regardless of whether the remainder of the sequence was flown by a substitute crew.
c. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Flight Attendant may request, and the Company may
consent, to drop the sequence and any pay protection would be waived.
3. Illegal After Origination (Departure of First Flight)
If, after originating a sequence a Flight Attendant becomes illegal to complete the sequence,
such Flight Attendant shall be split off at the latest point the sequence passes through their
crew base and they remain legal. If the sequence does not pass through the Flight Attendant’s
crew base prior to them becoming illegal, they shall be split off at the point of illegality. In
either circumstance the Flight Attendant will be pay protected for any portion(s) flown by a
substitute crewmember after splitting off. If such sequence is the Flight Attendant’s last
sequence or series of sequences of the bid month, the Flight Attendant shall be paid in
accordance with Paragraph L.4.

-- 82 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-36
L. LAST SEQUENCE OF THE MONTH PAY AND CREDIT
1. When a Lineholder’s last series of sequences in a bid month is cancelled in its entirety, or
when a Lineholder is illegal through no fault to originate their last sequence of the bid month,
the Lineholder shall be paid and credited for the entire sequence.
2. When a Lineholder becomes illegal after origination (whether such illegality is known prior to
or after origination) for a portion(s) of their last sequence of the bid month, the Flight Attendant
must originate such sequence and shall be split off at the latest point the sequence passes
through their crew base and the Flight Attendant remains legal. If the sequence does not pass
through the Flight Attendant’s crew base prior to them becoming illegal, the Flight Attendant
shall be split off at the point of illegality. In either circumstance, the Flight Attendant will be
paid and credited for the portion(s) of the sequence for which they were illegal.
3. If a Lineholder is unable to originate their last sequence of the bid month because the
origination has cancelled (whether known prior to or after report), the Company may request
the Flight Attendant to split onto such sequence, and the Flight Attendant must split on subject
to the following conditions:
a. The notification of the split must occur prior to the completion of the first scheduled duty
period of such sequence. When a Lineholder reports to the airport and signs in for the
sequence and is subsequently notified of the split, they will be provided with hotel
accommodations in the event the sequence does not originate on the same day.
b. The Company’s request must be made pursuant to Paragraph J.
c. The Flight Attendant shall be pay protected for the cancelled portion(s) of such sequence.
d. If the Company does not make such request, the Flight Attendant shall be released and
pay protected for the entire sequence.
4. If a Lineholder is legal to originate and to complete their last sequence of the bid month, but
some portion(s) of such sequence are cancelled, the Lineholder will be pay protected for the
cancelled portion(s) but will be obligated to fly the portion(s) of the sequence that are not
cancelled.
5. After origination, a Flight Attendant on their last trip of the month may be rescheduled in
accordance with Paragraph J.4.
6. A Reserve who is legal to originate a trip on days off is eligible for last sequence of the month
pay protection as described in Paragraph L., for a sequence(s) scheduled on days off provided
the Reserve:
a. has completed their last Reserve sequence for the month (after calling out of time); or
b. has completed their last Reserve sequence for the month and has no Reserve Days
remaining for the month.
M. SEQUENCE SPLITS
1. All sequence splits shall be limited to the Flight Attendant’s crew base except:

-- 83 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-37
a. When a Flight Attendant must split a sequence to comply with an involuntary legality after
sequence award;
b. For emergency of a personal nature;
c. For sick;
d. At Company request;
e. In accordance with the provisions of Training, Section 29;
f. For a Reserve in accordance with Reserve Duty, Section 12.N.
2. Company Initiated Splits or Replacement Flight Attendants
a. A Flight Attendant who splits onto or off of a sequence shall receive Trip Rig and Duty Rig
from the point at which the sequence is split, except that duty time related to deadheading
will only be paid for the replacement Flight Attendant unless such split is made at
Company request.
b. The sequence will be recalculated and a five (5) hour average duty period established for
each day of the sequence.
3. Flight Attendant causing the Split
a. Trip rig does not apply.
b. Duty Rig calculated for duty periods completed prior to/following the day of the split only,
as applicable.
c. The greater of the three (3) hour minimum day or the scheduled or actual segments flown,
or actual if greater, for duty periods completed prior to/following the day of the split, if
applicable, and actual pay for the day of the split.
d. There shall be no pay or credit for a deadhead generated as a result of such split.
Pay/Credit
Provision for
Split Trips
Company Initiated Splits and
Replacement Flight Attendant
(the one who did not cause the
split.)
Flight Attendant causing the split-Sick,
Emergency, Personal, Bereavement,
Union Business, Reserve split for ETB,
Stuck Commuting
Trip Rig and
Per Diem
Calculated to/from point of split,
including any necessary
deadhead and report and de-
brief.*
Trip Rig does not apply. Per Diem ends
following the last segment worked.
Duty Rig Calculated to/from point of split,
including any necessary
deadhead and report and de-
brief.*
Duty rig calculated for duty periods
completed prior to/following the day of the
split only, as applicable.
Minimum
Day
The sequence will be
recalculated and a five (5) hour
average duty period established
for each day of the sequence.
The greater of the three (3) hour minimum
day or scheduled or actual segments
flown, for duty periods completed prior to
the day/following the day of the split, if
applicable, and actual pay for the day of
the split.

-- 84 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-38
4. *Deadhead pay applies to/from the point of the split. When a duty period consists solely of a
deadhead flight into position to pick up or to return to base from a split trip, the Flight Attendant
will receive the greater of the three (3) hours or actual deadhead time.
N. SEQUENCE TRADES DAY OF DEPARTURE
A Flight Attendant, on the day of departure, may electronically exchange sequences or positions
on sequences which depart on the same day at a crew base.
O. PROJECTION AND ADJUSTMENT
1. General
a. Upon publication of a Flight Attendant’s PBS award, a monthly bidding credit window shall
be established between forty (40) credited hours and one hundred fifteen (115) credited
hours of Company Time (including any Vacation, etc.) in their line.
b. When a change in contractual month occurs during a sequence, pay and credit for the
time flown before midnight shall be paid and credited to the month in which the Flight
Attendant originated the flight. In the event a duty period actually terminates on the last
day of the month, but the arrival time at the crew base, based on local time of the last
point of departure, flying time and credit associated with the duty period would extend
past midnight, such time will be paid and credited in the following month. Midnight shall
be determined on the basis of local time at the point of last take off.
c. Accumulated actual credit, when added to future scheduled activity, shall constitute a
Flight Attendant’s projected credited time.
d. Sequences picked up while utilizing ETB will increase a Lineholder’s projection and their
TTS maximum bidding credit window. Sequences dropped utilizing the ETB will reduce
a Lineholder’s projection and their TTS maximum bidding credit window. Except for
adjustments because of ETB activity, the TTS maximum shall remain constant throughout
the month.
e. Once awarded by PBS, TTS, Daily Scheduling or ETB, each Flight Attendant will be
obligated to all sequences in their line.
i. The Flight Attendant shall be responsible for all self-initiated changes to their schedule.
ii. If a Flight Attendant fails to check-in for a sequence within ten (10) minutes past the
scheduled report time, Crew Scheduling may remove the Flight Attendant from the
sequence without pay protection. However, if a Flight Attendant arrives at the aircraft
with sufficient time to change the manifest, Crew Scheduling will allow the Flight
Attendant to fly the sequence even if a Standby Reserve has been assigned.
2. Over Projection and Under Projection
a. TTS or Daily Scheduling transactions must result in a projected credited time value within
the bidding credit window, however in the event that actual accumulated credit, plus future
scheduled activity results in a credit projection above or below the bidding credit window,
TTS or Daily Scheduling may be used to adjust such over or under projection.
b. When over projected, TTS or Daily Scheduling transactions may result in a projected
credited time value higher than the bidding credit window, however until projected credited

-- 85 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-39
time is within the bidding window, each TTS or Daily Scheduling award must be equal to
or reduce the Flight Attendant’s projected credited time.
c. When under projected, TTS or Daily Scheduling transactions may result in a projected
credited time value lower than the bidding credit window, however until projected credited
time is within the bidding window, each TTS or Daily Scheduling award is equal to or
increases the Flight Attendant’s projected credited time.
3. Involuntary Over Projection
a. If due to circumstances beyond the control of the Flight Attendant, their projected credited
time exceeds the bidding credit window, the Flight Attendant may utilize TTS or Daily
Scheduling to reduce their projection or, if not, fly over the monthly maximum and be paid
as specified in Paragraph O.3.b. In order to reduce the Flight Attendant’s projection to
their applicable monthly maximum, Daily Scheduling and the Flight Attendant shall
mutually agree on the sequence(s) to be dropped, with the understanding that coverage
requirements may dictate which portion or sequence will be given up to adjust projected
time. In the event the only sequences remaining to be dropped are sequences that touch
a protected holiday and the Flight Attendant’s last trip of the month, the protected holiday
sequence will be maintained on the Flight Attendant’s schedule.
b. If by the end of the month, a Flight Attendant does not utilize TTS or Daily Scheduling to
reduce their projection to within the bidding credit window, payment for such excess time
will be made on the fifteenth (15th) day of the following month.
P. LAST LIVE LEG
A Lineholder or a Reserve released into a day off or on a day off, or released for a future sequence
assignment may fly another Flight Attendant’s last live leg for them provided all parties adhere to
the following:
1. A Flight Attendant swapping onto the flight segment must ascertain that their name appears
on the flight plan;
2. Any Flight Attendant swapping onto a flight segment must inform Crew Scheduling in advance
of such swap and provide the names of the Flight Attendants involved. Both Flight Attendants
must make the request electronically. The Company shall attempt to confirm the swap within
fifteen (15) minutes of the request. The Company will check legalities and notify the Flight
Attendants with accept or reject. A Flight Attendant swap shall not create a delay in passenger
boarding or departure;
3. A Flight Attendant swapping onto the flight must be legal to do so. In the event the last live
leg is followed by a deadhead, the Flight Attendant swapping onto the live leg must also be
legal for the deadhead leg. In the event the deadhead leg becomes a live working segment,
the replacement Flight Attendant would be required to work such segment and must be legal
to do so. It will be the individual Flight Attendant’s responsibility to ascertain that the swap
and their own sequence, if applicable, will be in compliance with all applicable FARs. e.g., the
combination cannot exceed the Flight Attendant FARs or the combination cannot trigger a
compensatory rest violation on the replacement Flight Attendant’s sequence. A Flight
Attendant accepting a last live leg waives their duty and block limitations and rest requirements
up to the Flight Attendant FARs;
4. A Flight Attendant swapping onto the flight segment(s) will not be eligible for pay for the
flight(s) flown. No pay protection will be provided should the Flight Attendant swapping onto
the segment(s) become illegal for their own sequence.

-- 86 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-40
Q. STAFFING
1. The Company will pay understaffing pay for each segment identified as needing an additional
position(s) if such position is not covered in accordance with the pre-determined parameters.
An aircraft lacking one (1) or more Flight Attendant(s) in accordance with the parameters
established by the Company will result in the payment of understaffing on the understaffed
segment(s) as specified in Compensation, Section 3.
2. The current published staffing guidelines, effective November 9, 2014, shall be used to
determine the number of bid positions and the total number of Flight Attendants who will be
assigned to flights with variable manning. Thereafter, the Company may establish, at its
discretion and from time to time, new staffing formulas. These formulas shall be made
available to Flight Attendants, and APFA shall be notified of a change forty-five (45) days prior
to implementation of the new formula. Staffing formulas shall specify increments based on the
type of equipment, level of service, flying time and passenger load, as determined by the
Company.
3. While it is understood that the Company shall have discretion in changing staffing or service
levels, the APFA shall be afforded a safeguard against the Company abusing that discretion.
Accordingly, APFA shall have the right to file a Presidential Grievance if the Company abuses
its discretion by assigning an unreasonable workload to Flight Attendants.
4. The APFA shall have three (3) months from date of implementation of a change in staffing or
service level to file a Presidential grievance which shall be processed in accordance with the
Presidential grievance procedures set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
R. TELEPHONE RECORDING AND RULES
1. All telephone conversations between Flight Attendants and Crew Scheduling, with the
exception of Managers and above, involving scheduling matters shall be recorded.
2. The phone recording system will provide a method of indication of the time, date of the call
and the number called. Such recordings shall be kept for ninety (90) days and shall be made
accessible to each National Scheduling Chair or their designee on a need to know basis. In
the event of a dispute, the tapes will be kept until the dispute is settled.
3. If, for any reason, a recorded conversation is missing, erased or is otherwise inaudible, a
prompt review of the incident in question will be made by the Director of Crew Scheduling or
their designee upon written request from the respective National Scheduling Chair. If the gap
in any recording or the content of the missing information cannot substantiate the Company’s
position, then the affected Flight Attendant shall receive the benefit of the doubt.
4. Upon being notified by a representative of the APFA that a recording needs to be retrieved,
and the date, approximate time, and scheduler’s name is provided, the Company shall forward
the recording to the APFA within five (5) business days.
5. Flight Attendant phone numbers and schedule information will not be given out by Crew
Scheduling unless the Flight Attendant has given specific authority to do so. However, APFA
emergency numbers, as provided by the APFA for this purpose, will be made available on
request.
6. When calling a Flight Attendant, Crew Scheduling employees must identify themselves by
Company and department to the person answering the telephone.

-- 87 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-41
7. Recordings will be reviewed when a complaint or concern is raised by either the Flight
Attendant or Crew Scheduling. The Company shall retain the recordings for a period of ninety
(90) days. Either party may request retention of a relevant recording associated with
contractual issues relating to pay, planning, or scheduling or issues relating to the Company’s
policy against harassment and/or discrimination beyond the ninety (90) day period. Such
recording(s) will be retained until both parties agree that the specific issue has been resolved.
When an issue is identified by either party, the recording may be reviewed by a representative
of both the Company and the APFA. Recordings, transcripts, copies, or information obtained
from a recorded conversation may not be used in any disciplinary proceeding or process.
S. FLIGHT ATTENDANT POSITIONS
Flight Attendant shall be able to bid and be awarded by position in PBS, TTS, and ETB. A Flight
Attendant may not be displaced from their awarded or assigned position on their sequence
regardless of how the Flight Attendant acquired the position (e.g., PBS, ETB, TTS, Reserve
processing), except as provided for in International Flying, Section 14.L.1.e. and 14.L.5.b.iii. A
Flight Attendant on a flight who requests a position upgrade on the TTS Unsuccessful Bidders list
to another position on the same flight, will receive the position upgrade prior to a Reserve being
assigned the position as specified in accordance with Paragraph F.6.
T. CREW SCHEDULING ERRORS – MISAWARDS DOUBLE COVERED POSITIONS
1. Double Covered Positions
a. Lineholder/Reserve on a Day Off
i. When a Lineholder or a Reserve with a sequence on an off day is awarded/assigned
a sequence from the monthly bid awards, TTS/UBL, ETB, Daily Schedule, but at check-
in time is not listed in their awarded/assigned position, they may not be forced off the
sequence. When a Reserve is awarded a sequence from the ETB or Daily Schedule
and signs in for the sequence, but at check-in time is not listed in her/his awarded
position, The Flight Attendant who was awarded/assigned the sequence first shall have
priority to work the trip. The opportunity to be released as a result of Crew Scheduling
error will be determined by System Seniority.
ii. A claim for the first duty period, or first two (2) duty periods, if applicable, will apply or
three (3) duty periods if the sequence checks in too late for the Lineholder to bid in that
day’s TTS. The affected Lineholder’s pay for the remainder of the double covered
sequence shall be protected if the Lineholder goes on to the Unsuccessful Bidder’s
List to be made whole by requesting a “like” sequence(s) i.e., comparable check-in/out
times, number of days, Domestic for Domestic, IPD for IPD, and NIPD for NIPD.
iii. If a claimant flies a sequence after the pay protected duty period(s) worth more time
than the originally scheduled (double-covered) sequence, they may claim the pay
protected duty period(s) in addition to the sequence flown.
iv. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to split a sequence to be pay protected.
b. Reserve on a Reserve Day
i. If at sign-in, a Reserve on a RSV day is taken off a sequence because of double
coverage, they shall be considered “on-duty”, as defined in Definitions, Section 2.
iv.ii. The Reserve shall be required to remain available for further scheduling purposes on
that same day, unless released by Crew Scheduling. If required to remain available,

-- 88 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-42
the Reserve will be placed on Standby duty (not to exceed six (6) hours) for the
remainder of their RAP. If the Reserve was not originally on a RAP, then the Reserve
will be placed on a Standby shift not to exceed six (6) hours. However, in accepting
any further sequence award/assignment that day, the Reserve's report time for the
original sequence will be used in determining their applicable maximum duty day.
v.iii. The Reserve must remain available for all calendar days of the potential misaward,
including days off, double covered sequence is protected if, when applicable. future
sequences are awarded for the following day, she/he selects a “like” sequence(s).
vi.iv. A Reserve who is assigned a different sequence(s), including any
applicable Standby pay, of a lesser value shall be pay protected to the value of the
double covered sequence.
vii.v. If a Reserve on a RSV day is taken off a sequence because of double
coverage and subsequently receives another sequence assignment from daily Crew
Scheduling, all applicable scheduling parameters in this Agreement shall remain intact
(i.e., duty day limitations).
vi. A Reserve shall not be required to split a sequence to be pay protected.
2. Misawards (Lineholder or a Reserve on a day(s) off or released into a day off)
a. General - Misawards in TTS/UBL, ETB, and ROTA/D
i. Misawards include errors that occurred in TTS/UBL, ETB, ROTA/D, and trips removed
in error by the Company through no fault of the Flight Attendant.
ii. To be eligible for pay protection for a misawarded sequence, even if not yet confirmed,
a Flight Attendant must submit an electronic claim (e.g., Direct Connect) and include
all information related to the potential misaward within 96 hours of the misaward. A
Flight Attendant who submits for pay protection after the deadline will forfeit any
applicable pay protection.
iii. A Lineholder who chooses to fly the misawarded sequence shall be paid at the rate of
one hundred and fifty percent (150%), and credited at one hundred percent (100%), if
the misaward is confirmed. A Reserve on a day off who chooses to fly the misawarded
sequence will be paid at the rate of 150% pay, no credit.
iv. The Flight Attendant with a confirmed misaward who chooses to be removed from the
sequence must follow the misaward procedures in Paragraph T.2 to be pay protected.
v. A Flight Attendant shall follow the misaward procedures in Paragraph T.2 even if the
potential misaward has not been verified to be eligible for pay protection.
vi. Pay protection is based on the original value of the sequence at the time of the
award/assignment.
vii. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to split a sequence to be pay protected.
viii. Only one Flight Attendant will be paid for a misawarded sequence. Pay protection will
be paid to the most senior Flight Attendant who files for pay protection within the time
constraint of the misaward procedures (10.T.2.a.ii).

-- 89 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-43
ix. The time constraint of the misaward process must be met to ensure pay protection. A
Flight Attendant who submits for pay protection after the deadline will forfeit pay
protection.
x. If a Flight Attendant picks up a sequence for pay protection and subsequently drops
the sequence in TTS/UBL or ETB, pay protection for the misaward will be negated.
xi. A Flight Attendant required to bid “Like Sequences” must include all sequences with:
(a) Report Time: at least one (1) hour before/after the report time on the first day of
the potentially misawarded sequence
(b) Release Time: at least one (1) hour before/after the release time of the last day of
the potentially misawarded sequence
(c) Duty: same type (Domestic for Domestic, NIPD for NIPD, IPD for IPD) from the
same base/co-terminal
(d) A Flight Attendant may opt for a greater number of days when bidding for a “like
sequence”, however the comparison for pay protection is based on the original trip
and the actual trip flown.
xii. A Flight Attendant (Lineholder or a Reserve on a day(s) off or released into a day off)
who receives pay protection per the misaward process will be eligible to pick up
Company/open time. A Lineholder may pick up via TTS/UBL and be paid in addition
to the protected sequence. A Reserve on a day(s) off may pick up on TTS/UBL and
be paid in addition to the protected sequence. A Lineholder or a Reserve on a day off
that is being pay protected in Section 10 may conduct ETB transactions outside the
footprint of the originally scheduled pay protected sequence (sequence at the time of
assignment). Any ETB sequence picked up within the footprint of the originally
scheduled pay protected sequence will negate pay protection.
b. Trip Trade System (TTS) Misaward Process
i. The Flight Attendant must submit an electronic claim (e.g., Direct Connect) within 96
hours of the run with the potential misaward.
ii. The Flight Attendant must bid for all “like sequences” on each calendar day(s) of the
potential misaward for a minimum of three (3) TTS runs.
iii. If unable to bid in TTS, the Flight Attendant must bid to pick up all “like sequences”
from UBL on the day prior to origination and on each subsequent day using the same
criteria. The bid may be removed at 1500 HBT the day prior to the final duty period.
iv. To file for pay protection, the Flight Attendant must submit an updated electronic claim
(e.g., Direct Connect) with the three (3) TTS/UBL runs and include any awarded
sequence(s).
TTS Misaward Example:
FA Smith is potentially misawarded a 3-day sequence in TTS originating on June 1

-- 90 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-44
May 30 FA Smith identified the potential misaward at 0800 HBT. FA Smith will need to
ballot for all 3-day “like sequences” in the May 30 TTS run for June 1 (note:
must check “pass to UBL”)
May 31 If unsuccessful in TTS on May 30, ballot is passed to UBL (May 31) and must
remain until 1500 HBT for a 3-day trip originating on June 1. If unsuccessful
on UBL by 1500, FA Smith must update the UBL bid for all 2-day “like
sequences” originating on June 2.
June 1 If unsuccessful on UBL for any 2-day sequence originating on June 2 by 1500,
FA Smith must update the UBL bid for all 1-day “like sequences” originating on
June 3.
June 2 If unsuccessful on UBL by 1500 on June 2, no further obligation.
A Flight Attendant may opt for a greater number of days when bidding for a “like sequence”,
however the comparison for pay protection is based on the original trip and the actual trip
flown.
c. Unsuccessful Bidders List (UBL) Misaward Process
i. The Flight Attendant must submit an electronic claim (e.g., Direct Connect) within 96
hours of the run with the potential misaward.
ii. The Flight Attendant must remain on UBL and bid for all “like sequences” between
0400 HBT and 1500 HBT the day prior to the origination of the potential misawarded
sequence and each subsequent day using the same criteria. The bid may be removed
at 1500 HBT the day prior to the final duty period.
iii. If misawarded on the UBL for the same day of origination and/or after 1500 HBT the
day prior to the duty, the Flight Attendant will be pay protected for that duty period,
provided they fulfill the obligation for the entire misawarded sequence.
iv. To file for pay protection, the Flight Attendant must submit an updated electronic claim
(e.g., Direct Connect) with the UBL runs balloted for and include any awarded
sequence(s).
UBL Misaward Example:
FA Wilson is potentially misawarded a 3-day sequence in UBL originating on June 1
May 31 FA Wilson identified the potential misaward at 1600 HBT and has no obligation
for June 1, but FA Wilson must ballot in UBL for a 2-day “like sequences”
originating on June 2
June 1 If unsuccessful on UBL for any 2-day sequence originating on June 2 by 1500,
FA Wilson must update the UBL bid for all 1-day “like sequences” originating
on June 3.
June 2 If unsuccessful on UBL for any 1-day sequence originating on June 3 by 1500,
no further obligation.
A Flight Attendant may opt for a greater number of days when bidding for a “like sequence”,
however the comparison for pay protection is based on the original trip and the actual trip
flown.
d. Electronic Trade Board (ETB) Misaward Process

-- 91 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-45
i. The Flight Attendant must submit an electronic claim (e,g., Direct Connect) within
ninety-six (96) hours of the run with the potential misaward.
ii. The Lineholder must bid for all “like sequences” only in TTS/UBL immediately following
the potential misaward for each calendar day of the original sequence. The Reserve
on days off must bid for all “like sequences” only in ROTA or TTS/UBL immediately
following the potential misaward for each calendar day of the original sequence.
iii. The Flight Attendant must contact Crew Scheduling if their TTS MAX needs to be
increased in order to bid.
iv. To file for pay protection, the Flight Attendant must submit an updated electronic claim
(e.g., Direct Connect) with the runs balloted for and include any awarded sequence(s).
e. Reserve Open Time Assignment/Daily (ROTA/D) Misaward Process (trips originating on
Reserve Days)
i. The Reserve must submit an electronic claim (e.g., Direct Connect) within ninety-six
(96) hours of the run with the potential misaward.
ii. The Reserve must remain available for all calendar days of the potential misaward,
including days off when applicable.
iii. To file for pay protection, the Reserve must submit an updated electronic claim (e.g.,
Direct Connect) with all awarded/assigned sequence(s) and/or days available for pay
protection.
f. Preferential Bidding System (PBS) Misaward Process refer to Paragraph 10.D.15.
g. Crew Scheduling or Inflight Manual Trip Removal Errors - Misaward Process
i. Upon notification of the error by the Company or the Flight Attendant, Crew Scheduling/
Inflight will return the sequence(s) and position(s) to the Flight Attendant’s line, if
available from open time.
ii. If only one sequence was removed in error and it is no longer available in open time,
the Flight Attendant will be pay protected with no obligation, if an electronic claim (e.g.,
Direct Connect) is filed within ninety-six (96) hours of notification of the error.
iii. If multiple sequences were removed in error and one or more are no longer available
in open time, the Flight Attendant must bid in three (3) TTS run for all positions for each
of the specific sequence(s) lost, on each of the trip origination dates lost.
(a) If the first sequence originates within one (1) day from removal, the Flight Attendant
must bid in UBL until 1500 HBT the day prior to the origination of the lost sequence
for the specific sequence lost. If that is not possible (e.g., FA unaware until ROTA
runs the following day) then no obligation for the first sequence.
(b) The Flight Attendant must file an electronic claim (e.g., Direct Connect) within
ninety-six (96) hours with the specific details including the TTS run numbers for
pay protection.
3. Crew Scheduling Error – After Report

-- 92 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-46
Once a Flight Attendant has reported for a sequence, any violation of the Scheduling, Hours
of Service, Speaker, International or Reserve Sections of this Agreement shall be paid at time
and a half for the entire sequence (one hundred percent (100%) pay and credit and fifty
percent (50%) pay no credit). This provision shall not apply to Crew Scheduling errors in the
assignment of a sequence prior to origination of the sequence, which is governed by the Crew
Schedule error language specified in Scheduling, Section 10.otherwise addressed in 10.T.1-
2. In the event a dispute exists over whether a violation of this Agreement has occurred, the
matter will be resolved through Dispute Resolution and Grievance Procedures, Section 30
and System Board of Adjustment, Section 31.
U. SATELLITE BASE(S)
1. General
a. APFA and The Company must mutually agree to the opening of will determine, in its sole
discretion, the city at which any new satellite base test will be conducted and to which
crew base city the satellite base is linked. The Company will provide written notification
to the APFA National President once any satellite base test city has been selected.
b. The Company will determine, and on a month-by-month basis, the number of trip
sequences that originate from any satellite base. It is understood that the Company may
determine in any particular month to offer no sequences originating from any satellite
base.
c. At any time, the Company or the APFA may unilaterally close a satellite base(s) terminate
this agreement by providing written notice to the other party. In the event a satellite base
this agreement is closed, terminated, the Company will cease using the any satellite base
no later than two (2) months one month following the written notice of closure. termination.
Once terminated, all obligations will cease in all respects.
d. Each satellite base will be provided one (1) Satellite Base Coordinator, and the Company
will pay fifteen (15) hours flight pay and credit to the Satellite Base Coordinator.
e. An electronic notification system shall be used to notify satellite Flight Attendants when
satellite trips become available. The Satellite Base Coordinator shall assist in facilitating
coverage the Flight Attendants with all forms of satellite trip trades in order to avoid
creating open sequences originating from the satellite base which remain open after UBL
processing.
2. Eligibility for Trip Sequence Awards and Assignments
a. All active Flight Attendants in an active bid status who are based at the crew base city to
which the satellite base is linked may bid for the trip sequences that originate from the
satellite base.
b. Flight Attendants awarded a trip sequence originating from the satellite base shall be
responsible for their own transportation to and from the satellite base without exception.
c. A Flight Attendant who fails to submit a bid or who fails to bid for a sufficient number of
sequences shall not be assigned a satellite base trip sequence. Any trips not assigned in
PBS or TTS shall not be counted towards the three percent (3%) open time limitations.
3. Lineholder Trip Sequence

-- 93 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-47
All satellite base trip sequences will originate and terminate at the satellite base city with no
allocated ground deadhead as either the first or last segment of the sequence.
4. Reserve Sequences
The Company will not assign a Reserve Flight Attendant to a satellite base sequence.
5. Filling of Open Time
Satellite open time will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 10.E. An open
sequence will require a deadhead (including a surface deadhead) to and from the satellite
base at the beginning and end of the sequence if such open sequence is involuntarily assigned
to the Flight Attendant (e.g., reserve assignment). Flight Attendants who are awarded a
satellite open sequence shall be responsible for their own transportation to and from the
satellite.
6. Trip Trades
a. Flight Attendants who are awarded or assigned trip sequences originating from the
satellite base may use all the provisions of the TTS, including trades involving sequences
originating from the satellite and crew base.
b. Flight Attendants who are awarded or assigned trip sequences originating from the
satellite base may trip trade with other Flight Attendants at the same crew base, including
trades involving sequences originating from the satellite base
c. Flight Attendants who trade for or pick-up sequences originating from the satellite base
shall be responsible for their own transportation to and from the satellite base.
d. In no case will a Flight Attendant holding a trip sequence at the satellite base be permitted
to drop such trips into TTS.
e. The ETB system shall have a separate tab dedicated to Satellite base trips and Satellite
base trips will only be displayed on this tab.
7. Administrative Support
The Company will continue to provide administrative support (e.g., Flight Attendant company
mailboxes, access to manual revisions, etc.) at the crew base only, and in no case will the
Company be required to provide administrative support of any kind at a satellite base.
8. Parking
For purposes of employee parking provided in Expenses, Section 4, the satellite base shall
not be considered the Flight Attendant’s base city. The Company will provide parking at either
the crew base city, satellite base or American Airlines or its wholly owned carriers station of
the Flight Attendant’s choice. In no case will the Company be required to provide parking that
exceeds the scope of the parking provisions contained in Expenses, Section 4.
V. GENERAL
1. The seniority provisions of the agreement allow Flight Attendants to bid for trips of their
choosing. The Company and APFA may mutually agree upon objective metrics to ensure
Flight Attendants are not utilizing the scheduling systems to circumvent seniority. If, upon
applying these objective metrics, the Company determines that seniority provisions are being

-- 94 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-48
used to circumvent seniority, the Flight Attendant may be restricted from utilizing TTS, UBL,
and ETB. Nothing herein is intended to restrict or otherwise limit the legitimate uses of
seniority.
1.2. The Company shall furnish a Flight Attendant with an electronic statement of their monthly
flight time. If a discrepancy exists between the Company’s records and the Flight Attendant’s
records, and the affected Flight Attendant desires to reconcile the discrepancy, such Flight
Attendant will furnish the Company with a statement of their flight time by sequences for the
bid month involved, and the Company agrees to make the necessary reconciliation.
2.3. Temporary Phone Numbers
A Flight Attendant is required to have a primary telephone contact. A Flight Attendant may
have a secondary number on file with Crew Scheduling. However, in the event the Flight
Attendant needs to use a temporary number, the Flight Attendant must update in the Crew
Management System their new phone contact for each applicable date. Crew Scheduling will
call a Flight Attendant first at the primary telephone number and then the secondary number,
if supplied.
3.4. A Reserve working a trip on their day off shall be treated as a Lineholder for that trip for all
purposes of this Agreement, e.g., rescheduling, illegal through no fault of their own, double
covered trips.
4.5. In circumstances when a Flight Attendant is entitled to pay protection, such pay protection
shall be inclusive of applicable premiums (i.e., Speaker, International, Lead Pay, Aft and
Galley) from the original trip, except when: 1) the payment of such premium is excluded
elsewhere in the agreement; 2) pay protection is a daily credit; or 3) pay protection is for Sick,
Training, Holding, Jury Duty, Bereavement, Holiday, Settling/Moving Days, and Call Out Pay,
and Compensation for Hotel Delays.. Premium protections are applicable to PBS Primary
Lineholder or the Flight Attendant holding the applicable position at the trip origination.
In the event of an equipment downgrade, a Flight Attendant released with pay protection will
be provided applicable premiums as specified in Paragraph J.9. A Flight Attendant who is
not released shall receive the premiums applicable to the downgraded equipment.
5.6. Unless otherwise required in this Agreement, The Lead Flight Attendant will be responsible
for communicating with Crew Scheduling. In no event shall a Flight Attendant accept a change
in itinerary from anyone other than Crew Scheduling, a Company designee, e.g., member of
management, Inflight Management or the Captain. Notwithstanding the above, a customer
service agent may inform the Flight Attendant of the need to contact Crew Scheduling for
possible change of itinerary.
6.7. There shall be no charge for a Flight Attendant to access or interface with any of the various
scheduling systems, e.g., ETB, PBS, TTS, Reserve information, from the Flight Attendant’s
own internet connection.
7. Scheduling efficiencies, including but not limited to PBS, will not result in additional furloughs
of any Flight Attendants employed as of the ratification date. Protection ends twelve (12)
months after the final implementation of PBS at all bases.
8. Trips Removed Missed-Assumed Legality (Paper Legal)
A Flight Attendant who is relieved from flying duties for a paid absence including, but not
limited to, vacation, sick leave, training, jury duty, union leave, displacement, bereavement

-- 95 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-49
personal emergency, shall not assume the legality of the trip sequence(s) from which the Flight
Attendant is removed.
A Flight Attendant who is relieved from flying duties for a Pay Purpose Only (PPO) line will be
restricted from flying within the footprint of the sequence (report to release). A Flight Attendant
removed from a Reserve Day will be restricted from flying on the Reserve Day. However, a
Flight Attendant shall be considered illegal and shall be removed from any trip in the following
circumstances:
a. when there is a "direct conflict" between the two trip sequences, i.e., the second trip
sequence is scheduled to depart prior to the scheduled arrival of the first; or
b. the amount of time between the scheduled arrival of the first trip sequence and the
scheduled departure of the second trip sequence is less than the applicable report and
de-brief period combined.* Dates and times cited in Section 10 are subject to revision
based on recommendation by the JSIC.
* Dates and times cited in Section 10 are subject to revision based on recommendation by the
JSIC.
9. The Company will require Flight Attendants to be trained on all aircraft included in Section
37.D.
W. ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM(S) (ECS)
1. The Company will develop an Electronic Communication System (ESC) which will allow the
Flight Attendants to initiate, receive, and respond to electronic notifications as specified in this
Agreement. The intent is for ECS to be the primary means of communication between the
Company and the Flight Attendant regarding the Flight Attendant’s schedule. The parties agree
to explore opportunities to expand electronic communication to areas beyond those specified
in this Agreement and to continue to work on an ongoing basis to develop such areas.
2. The Electronic Communication System (ECS) will allow the Company to use electronic
notification as specified in this Agreement.
a. The Company will provide a device compatible with the ECS. The device used as an
Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) may fulfill this requirement. At the Flight Attendant’s option the
ECS may be accessed on the Flight Attendant’s personal device, provided it is compatible
with ECS. The Company, however, retains discretion to limit access to personal devices
should privacy or security concerns be identified. The Company shall discuss and work to
mitigate any such privacy and security concerns with APFA.
b. ECS shall provide for two-way communication (receive and respond) as provided for in this
Agreement.
3. Storage and ECS Messages
a. All ECS messages will be stored for no fewer than ninety (90) days and will include the
date and time of each communication.
b. Notifications, messages, and responses/confirmations will be accessible to the Flight
Attendant in the ECS for ninety (90) days. When an issue is identified by either party,
including an individual Flight Attendant, the message(s) may be reviewed by a

-- 96 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
10-50
representative of the Company and the APFA Scheduling or Contract Chair or their APFA
designee.
c. Either party may request retention of relevant ECS messages associated with contractual
issues relating to pay, planning, or scheduling or issues relating to the Company’s policy
against harassment and/or discrimination beyond the ninety (90) day period. Such
messages will be retained until both parties agree that the specific issue has been resolved.
4. The ECS will only be utilized where agreed upon in this Agreement and will not be used to
replace positive contact and/or phone contact where required in the Agreement. Similarly,
nothing in this Section will prevent the Company from using phone contact rather than ECS as
needed.
5. The APFA and the Company shall discuss and may agree upon opportunities for electronic
notification in addition to those already provided for in this Agreement.

-- 97 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-1
SECTION 11 - HOURS OF SERVICE
A. GENERAL (Domestic and International)
1. The flight time limitations provided in this Agreement shall include all flight time on regularly
scheduled sequences, extra sections, charter sequences, scenic flights, publicity flights, ferry
flights, other flights where Flight Attendants perform regular flight duties, sequence hour credit,
daily duty credit, minimum duty credit, report no-fly credit, and deadheading in accordance with
the deadhead provisions as set forth in this Agreement.
2. Actual block-to-block time or scheduled time on a leg-by-leg basis, whichever is greater, shall
be used in computing all flight time for pay purposes.
B. CUMULATIVE DUTY LIMITATIONS (Domestic and International)
1. A Reserve Flight Attendant may be scheduled to fly up to thirty-five (35) block hours in any
seven (7) consecutive days. Further, in actual operations, a Reserve will complete their
sequence combination even if the scheduled duty limitations are exceeded so long as no
applicable Flight Attendant specific FAR is violated.
2. A Lineholder in PBS or TTS may be scheduled to fly up to thirty (30) block hours in any seven
(7) consecutive days. However, in actual operations a Lineholder will complete their sequence
combination unless the duty limitation exceeds thirty-five (35) block hours.
3. A Flight Attendant at their option may waive the limitations in Paragraphs B.1 and B.3. Once
waived, a Flight Attendant will complete their trip combination so long as no applicable FAR is
violated. Once the waiver is exercised, the waiver will be applied for the remainder of the
month.
4. Domestic and International deadhead time will not count toward the thirty (30) / thirty-five (35)
hours in seven (7) days limitation in scheduled and actual operations.
5. ETB/TTS/UBL time will not count toward the thirty-five (35) hours in seven (7) days limitation
for a Reserve Flight Attendant. Any time picked up through ETB will not count towards and
thirty (30) hours in seven (7) days for Lineholders.
C. 24:00 HOURS OFF IN 7 DAYS (Domestic and International)
1. A Flight Attendant cannot fly more than six (6) consecutive days unless the six (6) consecutive
day period either contains or is followed by a consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period free from
all duty. Such twenty-four (24) hours shall be actual hours, shall be calculated from the time
of release to report and will occur during a layover, if applicable, or at the Flight Attendant’s
crew base.
2. As an exception to Paragraph C.1, the established PBS default for the consideration of required
rest in seven (7) days shall require that FAR rest occur while in the Flight Attendant’s crew
base.
D. DUTY PERIOD MINIMUM AND DUTY RIG (Domestic and International)
1. Minimum Guarantee
A Flight Attendant who flies and completes a sequence, or a sequence including deadheading
in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph A.1 shall receive the greatest of the following:

-- 98 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-2
a. Flight time pay and flight time credit scheduled or actual on a leg-by-leg basis.
b. Minimum of five (5) hours flight time pay and flight time credit multiplied by the number of
duty periods within a sequence provided however, any sequence that contains more than
one (1) duty period will be credited with a minimum of three (3) hours flight time pay and
flight time credit for each duty period.
c. Scheduled or actual On-Duty Time, whichever is greater, as provided in Paragraph D.5.
d. Scheduled or actual Trip Rig, whichever is greater, as provided in Paragraph D.4.
2. Definition of Completed Trip
a. Landing at an airport other than the airport or co-terminal of original departure, or;
b. If the aircraft returns to the gate at the airport or co-terminal of original departure after
takeoff for any reason, applicable on duty time will be as provided as described in
Paragraph D.1reasons other than mechanical.
If the aircraft returns to the gate at the airport of departure after takeoff because of
mechanical reasons, and no additional flying is performed within the on-duty period, it is
not considered a completed trip sequence and call out pay or on-duty time applies.
3. Call Out
a. A Flight Attendant who reports to the airport for a specific flight assignment but who does
no flying shall, if applicable, be eligible for Holding Time/Ground Time, as provided in
Compensation, Section 3.E, and shall receive the greater of:
i. Trip Sequence Origination
(a) flight time pay for On-Duty Time as provided in Paragraph D.5, from the time the
Flight Attendants reports for the specific flight assignment continuing until the Flight
Attendant is released to begin their legal rest period, or
(b) three (3) hours flight time pay.
ii. Mid-Sequence
(a) flight time pay and flight time credit for On-Duty Time as provided in Paragraph
D.5, or, if greater, flight time pay and flight time credit for Time Away from Base,
calculated in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph D.4, from the time the
Flight Attendant reports for the specific flight assignment continuing until the Flight
Attendant is the released to begin their legal rest period, or;
(b) three (3) hours flight time pay and credit.
b. This provision shall not apply to a Flight Attendant who does not fly due to their own
incapacity for flight.
c. This provision shall not apply to a Flight Attendant who is displaced by a supervisor,
instructor, or other authorized personnel.
4. Trip Rig (1 for 3.50)
For each sequence as defined in Definitions, Section 2, a Flight Attendant on a sequence shall
be paid and credited with one (1) hour for each three (3) hours and thirty (30) minutes prorated.

-- 99 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-3
When the actual flight time is less than the time so credited, the difference between the flight
time and the one (1) hour for three (3) hours and thirty (30) minutes prorated shall be
computed as a continuation of the last leg of the return sequence to the Flight Attendant’s
crew base.
5. Duty Rig (1 for 2)
A Flight Attendant shall receive a minimum of one (1) hour of pay and credit for every two (2)
hours of actual on-duty time prorated on a minute-by-minute basis of actual on-duty time.
6. Sit Rig (1 for 2) for Sit Times Over Two (2) Hours and Thirty (30) Minutes
Duty periods with actual sit times greater than two (2) hours and thirty (30) minutes shall
receive one (1) minute of pay for every two (2) minutes of sit time in excess of two (2) hours
and thirty (30) minutes. This provision applies to each actual sit-time during a sequence above
the first two (2) hours and thirty (30) minutes. The time is not credited and will be paid in
addition to any other pay earned for the sequence. This provision shall not apply to ODAN’s
as provided for in Paragraph L.
6.7. Sequence rig, duty rig and minimum duty credit shall be paid and credited in the month during
which such claim is earned. However, when a change in a contractual month occurs during
a sequence, pay and credit for the time flown before midnight, based on local time at the last
point of departure, shall be paid and credited to the month in which the Flight Attendant
originated the flight, and any pay and credit extending past midnight and all expense pay will
be carried over to the next month. However, when the last flight in the sequence physically
terminates at Flight Attendant’s base prior to 2400, including debrief, but has associated pay
and credit that extends past midnight the last day of the month, the expense pay only will be
paid in the sequence’s originating month.
Example 1:
A LAX-based Flight Attendant is scheduled for a trip sequence that is scheduled to terminate
at home base at 2359 on the last day of the contractual month of July. The duty period flight
pay is 6:04 hours and minutes. Although the flight actually terminates prior to midnight at home
base, the time zone of the last point of departure is used to determine the total time which
extends beyond midnight. For this example, to calculate the total hours/minutes of the
sequence which carries into the next month, take the departure time at the last point of
departure (2055), and add the flight time (6:04). This results in 2:59 of the total sequence
value being applied to the month of August. Since the sequence termination, including the
fifteen (15) minute debrief, does not terminate until August, all of the 25:44 hours and minutes
per diem expenses are paid in August.
SEQ 5432 BASE LAX DOM 320
DT EQ FLT STA DEP M STA ARR AC FLY GTR GRD ACT
SKD 30 80 30 LAX 2330 JFK 0759 5.29
D/P SKD 5.29 P/C 0.00 TL 5.29
SKD ONDUTY 6.44 ODL 11.41
SKD 31 80 185 JFK 2055 LAX 2359 6.04
D/P SKD 6.04 P/C 0.00 TL 6.04
SKD ONDUTY 7.19
SEQ SKD 11.33 P/C 0.00 TL 11.33 TAFB 25.44
Example 2:
A MIA-based Flight Attendant flies a turnaround that is scheduled to depart at 1830 and
terminate at 2140 on the last day of the month. The flight time on the first segment is 1:10,

-- 100 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-4
and the second segment is 1:05. Since the minimum value of a one (1) day sequence is five
(5) hours, and the total flying on this sequence is 2:15, minimum guarantee due on this
sequence is an additional 2:45. The 2:45 is considered an extension of the last flight leg. To
calculate the total hours/minutes which will be paid in the next month, take the departure time
at the last point of departure (2035), add the flight time (1:05) and add the guarantee time
(2:45). This results in twenty-five (25) minutes of the total sequence value being applied to
the next month. Since the sequence actually terminates prior to midnight at home base, the
per diem expenses are paid in the current month.
SEQ 4321 BASE MIA DOM 757
DT EQ FLT STA DEP M STA ARR AC FLY
SKD 31 BA 2487 MIA 1830 MCO 1940 1.10
SKD 31 BA 2487 MCO 2035 MIA 2140 1.05
D/P SKD 2.15 P/C 2.45G TL 5.00
SKD ONDUTY 4.25
SEQ SKD 2.15 P/C 2.45 TL 5.00 TAFB 4.25
E. DOMESTIC DUTY LIMITATIONS (Monthly Sequence Construction Only)
Maximum Scheduled Duty Period (Hours) Based on Number of Flight Segments
Report Time
(Home Base) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7+
0000-0359 9:15 9:15 9:15 9:15 9:15 9:15 9:15
0400-0459 10:15 10:15 10:15 10:15 9:15 9:15 9:15
0500-0559 12:15 12:15 12:15 12:15 11:45 11:15 10:45
0600-0659 13:15 13:15 12:15 12:15 11:45 11:15 10:45
0700-1259 13:15 13:15 13:15 13:15 12:45 12:15 11:45
1300-1659 12:15 12:15 12:15 12:15 11:45 11:15 10:45
1700-2159 12:15 12:15 11:15 11:15 10:15 9:15 9:15
2200-2259 11:15 11:15 10:15 10:15 9:15 9:15 9:15
2300-2359 10:15 10:15 10:15 9:15 9:15 9:15 9:15
NOTE: The above chart is limited to eight (8) hours and fifty-nine (59) minutes block. However, a
duty period may exceed in both duty and block time provided the sequence is limited to one (1) duty
period and to no more than two (2) live segments. The scheduled on-duty maximum for such
sequence shall be fourteen (14) hours and fifteen (15) hours in actual operations.
A Flight Attendant scheduled for a duty period with greater than eight (8) hours and fifty-nine (59)
minutes block shall receive a minimum of eleven (11) hours of home base rest following the duty
period. Such Home Base Rest may be waived by the Flight Attendant per Paragraph I.
Domestic sequences constructed after the monthly allocation process but in time to process in TTS
will comply with the domestic duty limitations defined in the above chart.

-- 101 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-5
F. DOMESTIC ON-DUTY LIMITATIONS (Actual Operations)
1. Actual Operations On-Duty Limitations
A Flight Attendant will not be required to remain on duty in excess of the duty limitations detailed
in the chart below:
Report Time Re-scheduled /
On-Duty Max
Operational
On-Duty Max
0500-1659 13:15 hours 15:00 hours
1700-2259 12:15 hours 13:00 hours
2300-0459 11:15 hours 12:00 hours
NOTE: On a block-to-block basis, if the duty period has a break of at least five (5) hours or
twice the number of block hours preceding the break, whichever is greater, then the thirteen
(13) hours and fifteen (15) minutes “rescheduled on-duty maximum” applies.
Domestic sequences constructed after TTS is processed will comply with the on-duty
limitations defined in the above chart.
A Flight Attendant will not be scheduled/rescheduled for more than eight (8) hours and fifty-
nine (59) minutes block time.
2. The determination of on duty periods shall be based on home base time (HBT).
G. STANDBY RESERVE DUTY LIMITATIONS
A Standby Reserve who is assigned a sequence will be subject to the duty period maximums in
accordance with Paragraph F. The applicable duty period maximum for the assigned sequence
will be based on the Reserve’s Standby report time in Column 1 of the Domestic Duty Chart in
Paragraph F. The total duty period, including the time from report for the Standby Reserve until
the conclusion of the sequence’s duty period, must not exceed the scheduled maximum on the
Duty Period chart based on the report time in Column 1 of the Domestic Duty Chart in Paragraph
E. duty time specified in Column 2 (Rescheduled/On-Duty Max) of the Domestic Duty Chart in
Paragraph F. In actual operations, a Standby Reserve will be subject to the operational on-duty
max in Column 3 of the Domestic Duty Limitations chart in Paragraph F.
Example:
A Reserve reports for Standby duty at 0500. During the Standby Reserve duty, the Reserve is
assigned a sequence, commencing at 0730 and releasing at 1500. The Reserve will be legal for
such sequence assignment. The Reserve’s duty day starts at the commencement of the Standby
shift at 0500 and the release time for the assigned sequence is 1500, resulting in a 10 (ten) hour
duty day. The maximum duty day for the standby a flight commencing at 0500 0730 per the
Domestic Duty Chart in Paragraph F is 13:15 hours chart (report between 0500-1659).0700-1259)
H. MINIMUM DAYS OFF
1. Relief from all duty for a Lineholder of not less than eleven (11) calendar days shall be provided
in the Flight Attendant’s crew base during each contractual month. Such provision may be
waived by the Flight Attendant in PBS, TTS and ETB.

-- 102 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-6
2. As an exception to the eleven (11) calendar days, a Lineholder with vacation of seven (7) or
more days or available for less than a full contractual month will have the eleven (11) days
prorated in accordance with the chart below:
30 Day Month 31 Day Month
Available
Days
Prorated
Days Off
Available
Days
Prorated
Days Off
29-30 11 30-31 11
27-28 11 28-29 11
24-26 10 25-27 10
22-23 9 22-24 9
19-21 8 20-21 8
17-18 7 17-19 7
15-16 6 13-16 5
10-14 4 10-12 4
7-9 3 8-9 3
5-6 2 5-7 2
2-4 1 2-4 1
1 0 1 0
I. DOMESTIC HOME BASE REST
A Flight Attendant shall be scheduled for no less than eleven (11) hours rest (calculated from
release from duty to report for duty) at the Flight Attendant’s home crew base, which in actual
operations, at their option, may be reduced to ten (10) eight (8) hours, subject to the applicable
FARs.
J. DOMESTIC MINIMUM LAYOVER REST
1. A Flight Attendant shall be scheduled for no less than ten (10) nine (9) hours and thirty (30)
minutes of rest (calculated from release from duty to report for duty) while on a layover which,
in actual operations, may not be reduced. below eight (8) hours and twenty (20) minutes. In
actual operations, the intent of this paragraph is to require “eight (8) hours behind the door”
minimum rest is required. If the minimum rest of eight (8) hours behind the door cannot be
met in the actual operation of a trip sequence, the crew upon reaching the layover hotel should
contact Crew Scheduling directly to reschedule the crew.
If a layover results in less than nine (9) hours rest, the Flight Attendant shall be provided
with compensatory rest. Compensatory rest must be at least ten (10) hours and must be
scheduled to begin no later than twenty-four (24) hours after the beginning of the reduced
rest period. The compensatory rest must occur between the end of the scheduled duty
period and the beginning of the subsequent duty period and may be on a layover or home
base.
2. When a Flight Attendant does not receive their minimum overnight rest period (ten (10) eight
(8) hours and twenty (20) minutes), the Flight Attendant shall be considered on duty with all
Duty Rigs and premiums applicable to continue on the sequence. A Flight Attendant who
feels they cannot continue on the sequence shall be relieved at the earliest possible time
without causing a delay and may claim sick time for the remainder of their sequence. It is also
understood that a Flight Attendant who elects to be relieved in accordance with the above will
not have that sick call recorded in the Flight Attendant’s sick time totals.
K. DOMESTIC FLIGHT SEGMENT LIMITS AND PATTERNS SCHEDULED WITHIN A
SEQUENCE

-- 103 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-7
1. If a duty period is scheduled to touch 0100 through 0101 Home Base Time such sequence is
classified as a Red-Eye sequence.
2. A Red-Eye duty period shall have no more than two (2) scheduled flight segments and no
more than one (1) scheduled aircraft connection. Such connection limitation is not applicable
in actual operations.
3. Sequences may be constructed with more than one (1) duty period beginning within the same
day.
4. Sequences shall be constructed so that if a Flight Attendant operates or deadheads on a flight
segment that touches 0300 HBT, the Flight Attendant shall be released for legal rest at the
termination of such flight segment. This Paragraph shall not restrict a Flight Attendant from
one (1) additional landing or a deadhead to crew base on account of an operational diversion
provided that the Flight Attendant does not exceed the maximum duty time as provided in
Paragraph F.
5. All Domestic sequences shall be constructed so as not to exceed four (4) duty periods with
duty over four (4) days and shall begin and end in a Flight Attendant’s crew base, co-terminal
or satellite unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement.
6. The number of sequences which contain Domestic or NIPD flying and consist of four (4) days
duration shall be limited to a maximum of thirty percent (30%) of the total number of sequences
which contain Domestic or NIPD flying within a crew base. Exceptions to this thirty percent
(30%) limitation are four (4) day sequences which contain IPD segments.
L. ON-DUTY ALL-NIGHTER DUTY PERIODS (ODAN) – (Domestic and International)
As an exception to Paragraphs E and F, ODAN sequences consist of a single, stand-alone duty
period which shall not be incorporated with any other duty period. An ODAN sequence includes all
of the on-duty hours between 0100 and 0500 HBT.
The Company may schedule ODAN duty periods subject to the following restrictions:
1. The ODAN duty period shall be scheduled for a maximum of fourteen (14) hours of duty
however, the Flight Attendant may be required to remain on duty up to fifteen (15) hours to
complete an ODAN sequence; and,
2. The ODAN duty period shall contain no more than two (2) segments; and,
3. Each segment in the ODAN duty period shall contain no more than two (2) hours and thirty
(30) minutes of block time; and,
4. The Flight Attendant shall be scheduled for a break between segments of no less than five (5)
four (4) hours pure rest, which is six (6) five (5) hours and fifteen (15) minutes block-to-block
rest on Domestic ODAN sequences and six (6) five (5) hours and thirty (30) minutes block-to-
block rest on NIPD ODAN sequences. Additionally, the Flight Attendant shall be scheduled
for a break between segments of no more than nine hours and fifty twenty-nine (29) minutes
(9:59) pure rest which is eleven ten (10) hours and fourteen forty-four (44) minutes (11:14)
block-to-block rest on Domestic ODAN sequence and eleven hours and twenty-nine minutes
(11:29) ten (10) hours and fifty-nine (59) minutes block-to-block on NIPD ODAN sequences.
5. A Flight Attendant on an ODAN sequence may be rescheduled to fly or deadhead on one (1)
additional segment either prior to or following the break as described in Paragraph K.4.

-- 104 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-8
6. Notwithstanding Crew Accommodations, Section 6.B.2, on an ODAN with a segment
scheduled with more than two (2) hours of block time, an airport hotel shall be used if one
exists.
M. DOMESTIC ON-BOARD REQUIREMENTS
1. On a Domestic departure on a narrowbody an aircraft of less than one hundred and sixty-one
(161) five (165) passenger seats, a Flight Attendant will be required to be on board the aircraft
ready to receive passengers thirty (30) minutes prior to scheduled departure.
a. The Company may increase the above time to a maximum of thirty-five (35) minutes
provided the Company provides sixty (60) days’ notice to APFA and Flight Attendants.
b. Once increased, the Company may subsequently decrease the on-board requirement to
a minimum of thirty (30) minutes. The Company must provide sixty (60) days’ notice to
APFA and Flight Attendants.
2. On a Domestic departure on an aircraft of one hundred and sixty-one (161) five (165) or more
passenger seats, a Flight Attendant will be required to be on board the aircraft ready to receive
passengers thirty-five (35) minutes prior to scheduled departure.
a. The Company may increase the above time to a maximum of forty (40) minutes provided
the Company provides sixty (60) days’ notice to APFA and Flight Attendants.
b. Once increased, the Company may subsequently decrease the on-board requirement to
a minimum of thirty-five (35) minutes. The Company must provide sixty (60) days’ notice
to APFA and Flight Attendants.
3. On a Domestic departure on a widebody aircraft, a Flight Attendant will be required to be on
board the aircraft ready to receive passengers thirty-five (35) minutes prior to scheduled
departure.
a. The Company may increase the above time to a maximum of forty-five (45) minutes
provided the Company provides sixty (60) days’ notice to APFA and Flight Attendants.
b. Once increased, the Company may subsequently decrease the on-board requirement to
a minimum of thirty-five (35) minutes. The Company must provide sixty (60) days’ notice
to APFA and Flight Attendants.
4. The Company will publish and maintain any changes to on-board requirements as specified
above in a location readily accessible to flight attendants, such as the monthly bid sheet.
N. DOMESTIC REPORT AND RELEASE TIMES
1. A duty period shall begin at report time. Report times shall be as follows:
2. One (1) hour prior to the originally scheduled departure or actual report time, whichever is
later, at crew base; and
3. One (1) hour prior to the originally scheduled departure or actual report time, whichever is
later, at a layover.
4. The duty period shall begin at report time, as defined in Paragraphs N.1-3, and end at release
time. Release time shall be fifteen (15) minutes after the aircraft blocks-in at the gate or the
originally scheduled block-in, whichever is later.

-- 105 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-9
O. VOLUNTARY WAIVER OF FLIGHT DUTY LIMITATIONS
1. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to remain on duty beyond the maximum flight duty limits
as specified in Paragraph F. If the combination of a delayed departure time and the scheduled
flight time(s) projects the Flight Attendant’s duty to exceed the maximum duty limitations
specified in this Agreement, Crew Scheduling may electronically offer, and a Flight Attendant
who may voluntarily agrees electronically to continue working work past the maximum duty
limitations may be required to work up to a maximum of four (4) hours and shall receive pay as
described below. The Company will electronically offer VE to each crewmember and each
crewmember will respond with accept or reject. The Lead/Number 1 Flight Attendant will be
the contact to follow up on the responses regarding the offer to extend. Any crewmember(s)
who wish to extend may call Crew Scheduling to request initiation of the process if the
maximum duty limitation is expected to be exceeded. Once the Flight Attendant has agreed to
extend up to four (4) hours, such agreement may not be rescinded.
a. A When such Flight Attendant who voluntarily agrees to remain on duty shall receive
continue working, in addition to any pay for the duty period at a trip, the Flight Attendant
will be paid, but not credited, at the rate of two hundred percent (200%) and credit at one
hundred percent (100%) for remaining on duty up to three (3) hours. If the Flight Attendant
remains on duty in excess of three (3) hours up to a maximum of four (4) hours, the Flight
Attendant shall receive pay (1) minute of flight pay for each two (2) minutes on duty for the
entire duty period commencing at the duty period’s actual report time and ending fifteen
(15) minutes after the actual block-in at the rate of three hundred percent (300%) and credit
at one hundred percent (100%), instead of two hundred percent (200%) and credit at one
hundred percent (100%). The flight can operate with FAR required minimum crew if some
of the crew choose not to fly.
a.b. Once the a Flight Attendant has volunteered to exceed the maximum duty limitations
agreed to the four (4) hour extension, the Flight Attendant will receive the pay as specified
above in Paragraph 1.a, even if the duty limitations are not exceeded.
2. If a Flight Attendant on a double up sequence is offered and agrees to exceed the maximum
flight duty limitations as specified in Paragraph 11.F, the calculation for additional pay shall
start at the report time of the first sequence and end fifteen (15) minutes after the actual block
in time of the second sequence within the double up.
2. Crew Schedule shall contact the Lead/Number 1 Flight Attendant from the applicable crew in
order to offer the crew the ability to voluntarily waive the duty limitations; provided however,
Crew Schedule may require communication with the other Flight Attendants as necessary.
3. In such circumstances, the rest provisions contained in Paragraphs I and J, will apply at the
end of the extended duty period.
4. It is understood that it is each individual Flight Attendant’s decision whether to waive the duty
time limitations. The failure to agree to waive duty time limitations shall not affect any pay
protections otherwise provided for in this Agreement.
4. Crew Schedule Error – After Origination (Language retained and moved to Section 10)
Once a Flight Attendant has commenced a sequence, any violation of the Scheduling, Hours
of Service, Speaker, International or Reserve Sections of this Agreement shall be paid at time
and a half for the entire sequence (one hundred percent (100%) pay and credit and fifty
percent (50%) pay no credit). This provision shall not apply to Crew Schedule errors in the
assignment of a sequence prior to the origination of the sequence, which is governed by the
Crew Schedule error language specified in Scheduling, Section 10. In the event a dispute
exists over whether a violation of this Agreement has occurred, the matter will be resolved

-- 106 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
11-10
through Dispute Resolution and Grievance Procedures, Section 30 and System Board of
Adjustment, Section 31.
5. An electronic method will be provided for processing the voluntary extension of the duty period
contained in Paragraph 1.
P. CONSOLIDATION OF ALL-NIGHTERS RESULTING IN FLAGSTOP(S)
The crew scheduled to fly the all-nighter trip which has been canceled and consolidated into
another all-nighter because of operational necessity shall receive pay and credit for the published
value of the canceled trip.
Q. INCORPORATION OF FLAGSTOP(S) INTO ALL-NIGHTERS
As an exception to Paragraph L.5, the crew flying an all-nighter trip into which one (1) or more
flagstops have been incorporated because of operational necessity shall receive pay and credit for
the published value of the original sequence or for the actual value of the sequence as flown,
whichever is greater, plus a total of five (5) hours pay and credit for the resulting flagstop(s).

-- 107 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-1
SECTION 12 - RESERVE DUTY
A. RESERVE LINES
1. Flight Attendants will use PBS to bid for either a regular line of flying or a Reserve line of flying.
Reserve lines will reflect reserve (RSV) duty days and days off (“Golden Days” and “Flex
Days”). A Reserve’s RSV duty day will begin at 0000 Home Base Time and end at 2359
Home Base Time (HBT), subject to the Reserve Availability Periods (RAPs) specified in
Paragraph G. Flight Attendants holding a Reserve line will be Reserve Flight Attendants
(“Reserve(s)”). There will be Reserve line(s) that contain Golden Day(s) on holidays and
weekends in each base.
2. The Company agrees to consult with and consider recommendations from the National
Scheduling Chair regarding Reserve issues.
3. Reserve Rotation
The number of Flight Attendants required to serve reserve is dependent upon the needs of
the service, as determined by the Company.
a. Flight Attendants hired before the date of ratification will sit rotating Reserve in accordance
with the following provisions:
i. If needed as a Reserve, for the first twelve (12) months after initial training, a Flight
Attendant shall be on straight Reserve;
ii. If needed as a Reserve, once having completed a full year of Reserve duty, a Flight
Attendant will serve Reserve on a one (1) month on/ one (1) month off Reserve rotation
for a period of three (3) years;
iii. If needed as a Reserve after four (4) years, the Flight Attendant will serve Reserve
duty on a one (1) month on/ three (3) months off rotation;
iv. If additional Flight Attendants are required to stand Reserve duty in a particular month,
they will be selected in reverse order of seniority. Their Reserve duty will not exceed
their applicable rotation.
b. Flight Attendants hired on or after the date of ratification and the subsequent date of
implementation as established in the Implementation Letter of Agreement will sit rotating
Reserve in accordance with the following provisions:
i. If needed as a Reserve, for the first two (2) years after initial training, a Flight Attendant
shall be on straight Reserve;
ii. If needed as a Reserve, once having completed two (2) full years of Reserve duty, a
Flight Attendant will serve Reserve on a one (1) month on/ one (1) month off Reserve
rotation for a period of three (3) years;
iii. If needed as a Reserve following b.ii., above, a Flight Attendant will serve Reserve
duty on a one (1) month on/three (3) months off rotation;
i.iv. If additional Flight Attendants are required to stand Reserve duty in a particular month,
they will be selected in reverse order of seniority. Their Reserve duty will not exceed

-- 108 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-2
their applicable rotation.
c. Senior Bump
Seniority permitting, a Flight Attendant who is not designated as Reserve may change
their assigned reserve month by bidding “Reserve” in a month that they would not be on
the assigned reserve list. Such election must be made prior to the opening of the PBS
process and will result in a reserve line of flying. The Flight Attendant will not be eligible
for a regular line of flying. When a Flight Attendant bids onto reserve out of regular
rotation, it changes their future reserve cycle with one exception: A Flight Attendant who
is on reserve by their own choosing during the same month they are on more than three
(3) days approved vacation in a month or Voluntary Personal Leave of Absence (VLOA)
(PLOA) have not fulfilled their reserve obligation.
i. When a Flight Attendant desires to initiate "Senior Bump”, they must indicate such
preference.
ii. Flight Attendant who is designated as Reserve but desire to be bumped off should bid
a regular trip selection(s) and/or reserve selection(s). The Flight Attendant's desire will
be honored only if their seniority who has not already bumped a more senior Flight
Attendant off reserve.
iii. Should the number of Flight Attendants desiring to bump onto reserve exceed the
number of Flight Attendants desiring to bump off reserve, the junior Flight Attendant(s)
may be displaced from the planned reserve list.
iv. Flight Attendant(s) who are bumped off or are displaced from the planned reserve list
will be considered available for the next month's reserve rotation.
d. Transfer: Effect on Rotation
If a Flight Attendant transfers to a base where their seniority places them in the reserve
duty group, the Flight Attendant will be scheduled on reserve the first full scheduling month
that they are at the new base. Such assignment shall be irrespective of previous service
as a reserve at the former base. The Company and the APFA will explore options for
staggering reserve rotations for new hires and recalls.
e. The Company agrees to meet upon request with APFA to discuss possible methods to
reduce Reserve seniority levels in high seniority bases.
4. Vacation/VLOA/LOA: PLOAVLOA: Effect on Reserve Rotation
a. A Flight Attendant who is granted a vacation or an approved paid leave of absence for
part or all of the month during which they would normally be scheduled for active reserve
duty will be considered as fulfilling their obligation for an entire month's service as an
active reserve and will maintain their normal position in rotation. Notwithstanding the
exception in Paragraph 12.A.3.c, the above shall not apply to a Flight Attendant who bids
reserve out of their regular rotation.
b. No Reserve will be granted a voluntary leave of absence (VLOA), until all leaves have
been granted to Flight Attendants with monthly flying assignments. Once these leaves
have been granted and there is still an overage, a Reserve may be granted a leave. Any
Reserve granted a VLOA will not receive Reserve credit for that bid period.
B. SCHEDULED DAYS FREE OF DUTY

-- 109 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-3
1. A Reserve will be provided scheduled days free of duty as provided for in Scheduling, Section
10. Reserve day off patterns shall conform to the patterns established in Scheduling, Section
10.D.16.
2. Golden Days
a. A Reserve may not be assigned flight duty on a Golden Day unless they consent to such
assignment.
b. A Reserve may bid for and be awarded a sequence in ROTA/D that originates on a RSV
day and is scheduled to return to the Reserve’s crew base on a Golden Day. Any pay
hours for such sequence will be paid as pay and credit. A Reserve may bid for a sequence
that originates on her/his Golden Day and terminates on a day off and will be processed
for such sequence after all Reserves who are available on such day(s) have been
processed. Any pay hours on her/his day off, starting at 0000 of her/his day off, shall be
paid as pay no credit. In both such cases, The Reserve shall be deemed to have waived
such portion of their Golden Day and there shall be no reinstatement of such day.
i. Future (ROTA): A Reserve may elect to work into on a Golden Day(s) and the Reserve
shall make such choice known to Future Crew Scheduling prior to 1500 HBT,
concurrent with the beginning of Future Reserve processing. Such election may not
be revoked during Future Reserve processing. If not awarded a sequence in Future
Processing, the Reserve may, at their option, revoke their election and have their
Golden Day(s) reinstated.
ii. Daily (ROTD): A Reserve may elect to work into on a Golden Day(s) and the Reserve
shall make such choice known to Daily Crew Scheduling. If contacted for sequence
assignment, the Reserve must accept such sequence assignment, provided they are
legal to operate the sequence. Such Reserve may opt to reconsider and protect their
day(s) off, as long as they remove their bid from ROTD she/he advises Daily Crew
Schedule prior to being contacted for a Daily sequence assignment.
c. Bidding in TTS/UBL on Days Off
A Reserve may bid for a sequence in TTS/UBL that originates on their Golden Day and
terminates on a day off. Any pay hours on their day off starting at 0000 of their day off
shall be paid as pay, no credit. The Reserve shall be deemed to have waived such portion
of their Golden Day and there shall be no reinstatement of such day.
c.d. If actual operations cause a Reserve’s duty period to be extended into the Reserve’s
Golden Day(s), any pay hours on or after 0000 of their Golden Day shall be paid at pay
no credit. If actual operations cause a Reserve’s duty period to be extended for one (1)
hour or less into the Reserve’s Golden Day(s), such day will not be restored. In addition,
if actual operations cause a Reserve’s duty period to be extended for more than one (1)
hour into the Reserve’s Golden Day(s), the options specified in Paragraph D, shall apply.
The Reserve will be released from all duty for the remainder of the day they return to base.
3. Flex Days
a. A Reserve may be assigned flight duty into a Flex Day(s) in accordance with the language
specified in Paragraphs J and K, and the assignment language in Paragraph O. Once an
assignment is made on a Flex Day(s), a new day off will be scheduled in accordance with
Paragraph D, and the pay associated with the Flex Day(s) shall be paid as pay and credit.
A Reserve may, at their option, give up the Flex Day(s) without reinstatement.

-- 110 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-4
b. A Reserve who voluntarily picks up a sequence(s) on their Flex Day(s) shall be deemed
to have waived such Flex Day(s) in accordance with Paragraph B.3.a, and there shall be
no reinstatement.
c. Other than as specified in Paragraph B.3.a, a Flex Day may not be moved by the Company
without the consent of the Reserve.
4. A Reserve may bid for and be awarded a sequence in ROTA/D that originates on a RSV day
and is scheduled to return to the Reserve’s base during any portion of their Flex Day. Any
pay hours for such sequence will be paid as pay and credit. A Reserve may bid for a sequence
that originates on her/his Flex Day and terminates on a day off and will be processed for
such sequence after all Reserves who are available on such day(s) have been processed.
Any pay hours on her/his day off, starting at 0000 of her/his day off, shall be paid at pay no
credit. In both such cases, the Reserve shall be deemed to have waived such portion of
her/his Flex Day and there shall be no reinstatement of such day.
a. Future (ROTA): A Reserve may elect to work into on a Flex Day(s) and the Reserve shall
make such choice known to Future Crew Scheduling prior to 1500 1700 HBT, concurrent
with the beginning of Future Reserve processing. Such election may not be revoked
during Future Reserve processing. If not awarded a sequence in Future Processing, the
Reserve may, at their option, revoke their election and have their Flex Day(s) reinstated.
b. Daily (ROTD): A Reserve may elect to work into on a Flex Day(s) and the Reserve shall
make such choice known to Daily Crew Scheduling. If contacted for sequence
assignment, the Reserve must accept such sequence assignment, provided they are legal
to operate the sequence. Such Reserve may opt to reconsider and protect their day(s)
off, as long as they remove their bid from ROTD she/he advises Daily Crew Schedule
prior to being contacted for a Daily sequence assignment.
c. Bidding in TTS/UBL on Days Off
A Reserve may bid for a sequence in TTS/UBL that originates on their Flex Day and
terminates on a day off. Any pay hours on their day off, starting at 0000 of the Reserve’s
day off, shall be paid as pay no credit. The Reserve shall be deemed to have waived such
portion of their Flex Day and there shall be no reinstatement of such day.
c.d. If actual operations cause a Reserve’s duty period to be extended into their Flex Day(s),
any pay hours on or after 0000 of the Reserve’s Flex Day shall be paid at pay no credit.
If actual operations cause a Reserve’s duty period to be extended for one (1) hour or less
into the Reserve’s Flex Day such day will not be restored. In addition, if actual operations
cause a Reserve’s duty period to be extended for more than one (1) hour into the
Reserve’s Flex Day(s), the options specified in Paragraph D, shall apply. The Reserve
will be released from all duty for the remainder of the day they return to base.

-- 111 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-5
e. Pay and Credit vs. Pay, No Credit on Reserve Days Off
PAY & CREDIT
(Pay toward guarantee & hours count toward RSV monthly max*)
vs.
PAY, NO CREDIT
(Pay above guarantee, hours do not count toward RSV monthly max)
Sequence Sequence
Origination
Sequence
Termination
Pay & Credit or
Pay, No Credit
Actual Ops worked into FD/GD RSV Day FD/GD Beginning on
FD/GD at 0000
Pay, No Credit
ETB/TTS/UBL Pick-Up FD/GD FD/GD Pay, No Credit
ROTA/D “Award into FD/GD” RSV Day FD/GD Pay & Credit
ROTA/D Assignment/Award RSV Day RSV Day Pay & Credit
ROTA/D Assignment into FD RSV Day FD Pay & Credit
*Aggressive hours above 40 hours (K.4.b) do not count toward calling out of time.
5. A Reserve may not be assigned training on a Flex or Golden Day unless they consent to such
assignment.
C. TRADING DAYS OFF
1. Trading Days Off with other Flight Attendants
a. Reserves shall be allowed to trade days off utilizing ETB or another electronic system.
Patterns of days off traded must conform to the patterns established in Scheduling,
Section 10.D.16.
b. As a result of a trade, if one or more Golden Day(s) is placed in front of a Flex Day(s),
such Golden Day(s) will be converted to a Flex Day(s) and the original Flex Day will be
converted to a Golden Day. If the swap would result in a Reserve having more than the
number of Golden Day(s) off as provided for in Scheduling, Section 10.D.16.b, one of the
Reserve’s Golden Day(s) will be converted to a Flex Day.
c. Reserves may trade days off concurrent with the electronic system bid timeline on a daily
basis.
d. Trades must occur within the same bid month.
2. Trading Days Off With the Company
a. A Reserve may request to trade their days off with the Company, which may include one
(1) or more days off. All such requests will be subject to Company approval.
b. Reserve Flight Attendants’ requests for trades of days off will be awarded from among
those Flight Attendants having requests on file at the specific time such requests are to
be processed each day. For the purposes of awarding a day off trade request, all Flight
Attendants serving Reserve at the base will be combined into a single seniority list
according to the day(s) approved for trade, and requests will be awarded in seniority order.

-- 112 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-6
c. A Reserve Flight Attendant requesting to trade their day(s) off must submit a ballot to the
Company beginning on the 24th of the month prior, no later than 1200 HBT at least two
(2) days prior to the first day requested to be traded. Such ballot must be processed
(starting on the 25th of the month), in seniority order, and will be awarded by no later than
1200 HBT the day after it was submitted. Ballots will remain active until the Reserve Flight
Attendant removes their ballot, prior to being processed, or it has been approved. This
process is an automated process, and the timelines can be adjusted by mutual agreement
of APFA and the Company.
d. Reserve Flight Attendant’s desiring to trade days off with the Company will be held to the
same parameters of C.1.a-b and d.
D. RESCHEDULING OF FLEX AND GOLDEN DAYS
1. In the event a Reserve has been assigned on a Flex Day as specified in Paragraph B.3.a, or
the Reserve has worked into a Golden Day or Flex Day because of actual operations as
specified in Paragraphs B.2.d and B.4.d, the Reserve and the Company shall mutually agree
to the reinstatement of a Golden Day on a different day in that bid period. If the Reserve and
the Company do not mutually agree, the day(s) off shall be placed at the end of the Reserve’s
current block of Reserve days off.
2. The Reserve will be required to contact Crew Scheduling for the reinstatement of their Golden
Day within forty-eight (48) hours of the assignment into such Flex or Golden Day to mutually
agree upon an alternative day.
3. If no agreement is reached, or the Reserve fails to call within forty-eight (48) hours of the
assignment into such Flex or Golden Day, or the Reserve has no more days of availability in
the bid period to be converted into a Golden Day, they shall receive pay no credit equal to the
value of a Reserve day, i.e., minimum reserve guarantee divided by the number of originally
scheduled days in that line that are not Golden or Flex Days, in lieu of the day(s) off.
If the Reserve has no more days of availability in the bid period to be converted to Golden
Days, the Reserve may not be utilized on the Flex Day unless they consent to such
assignment in which case the pay protections specified in this Paragraph D, shall apply.
E. RESERVE CREW BASE REST
1. Following any Reserve sequence, a Reserve shall be provided no less than twelve (12) hours
rest (calculated from release from duty to report for duty) at the Reserve’s home crew base
which is reducible at their option as specified in Scheduling, Section 10.
2. Unless notified of an assignment for the current reserve duty day in accordance with
Paragraph O upon check-out from a Reserve’s sequence, or upon completion of a Standby
assignment at their home or Temporary Duty Assignment (TDY) crew base, they shall be
considered released from Reserve duty to begin their legal crew base rest period. If a Reserve
checks in at the airport but does not fly, she/he will resume her/his RAP unless released by
Crew Schedule. A Reserve will not be required to be available for contact by Crew Schedule
during her/his crew base rest as specified in Hours of Service, Section 11.
3. A Reserve will not be required to be available for contact by Crew Scheduling during their
crew base rest as specified in Hours of Service, Section 11.
3.4. Upon release into such uninterrupted rest period at a home or TDY crew base, a Reserve; will
not be called by Crew Scheduling for the first eight (8) and thirty (30) minutes, unless there is
an operational need to notify the Flight Attendant of a schedule change to their next flying

-- 113 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-7
assignment. In such event, the Flight Attendant will not be obligated to answer such call. A
Reserve will be required to check the Crew Management System to review and acknowledge
any assignment concurrent with the commencement of a RAP or Standby assignment.
4.5. After the Reserve has completed their rest, they will be placed on a full RAP shift. If a unless
the Reserve has not completed their rest prior requests to the be placed on a RAP with a
modified start time of their scheduled full RAP . Crew Schedule may, but is not required to,
award the modified RAP to the Reserve. The modified RAP will be available to begin the RAP
one (1) minute after completion of the rest and the end time will remaincontain the same end
time as the originally published RAP, unless the Reserve requests to be placed on the next
full RAP.
Example: The rest following a reserve sequence ends at 0800. A Reserve was originally
assigned RAP A with an. She/he will be reassigned to RAP B since she/he will be available
for the entire RAP. She/he may request RAP A which has a 0700 start time. If Crew Schedule
agrees to award a modified RAP, the Reserve will be available on their commence RAP A at
0801 unless the Reserve requests to be placed on the next full RAP. The 0800 and end of
the RAP will remain as originally scheduled at 1900.
5.6. At Crew Scheduling’s option, at any point a deficit of Reserves exists in a particular RAP,
Crew Scheduling may offer the option for Reserves, on a first come, first served basis, to
request to be reassigned to the RAP where the deficit exists.
F. STANDBY RESERVE
1. A Standby is a Reserve (Standby) who has been awarded or assigned Standby duty in uniform
at the airport without a specific flight assignment for the purpose of covering a sequence in
order to prevent a delay. A Standby may also be utilized for the purpose of deplaning,
boarding or remaining with through passengers on the aircraft.
2. A Reserve awarded or assigned Standby duty must be legal and available for the number of
duty days required for the Standby shift. A Flight Attendant must be legal and available for
the number of hours times the minimum day (e.g., five (5) hours for a one-day trip, ten (10)
hours for a two-day Standby shift, etc.)
3. Standby duty may be awarded or assigned by Future Scheduling or by Daily Scheduling. The
number of Standby shifts designated by base will be determined by Crew Scheduling.
4. A Reserve may be assigned to either a four (4) or six (6) hour Standby shift. Pay and credit for
such Standby shifts shall be as established in Paragraph F.9. The scheduled length of the Standby
shift must be indicated in the Future Reserve bidding and communicated to the Reserve at the time
of the Future or Daily assignment. A Reserve is not required to check-in with the Company at
the end of the Standby shift. A Standby who does not receive flight duty shall be released to
begin their uninterrupted crew base rest at the end of their Standby shift.
A Reserve currently sitting on standby may request to extend their shift to a total of six (6) hour or
eight (8) hours with Crew Scheduling approval. Pay and credit for such extension shall be
established in Paragraph F.9.a.
5. No Reserve may be involuntarily assigned to a Standby shift more than two (2) times in a month,
unless all legal and available Reserves at the base have been assigned two (2) times. If assigned
standby in ROTD, the above rule will apply for all legal and available Reserves within the associated
RAP(s).
6. Duty time for a Standby shift will begin upon scheduled report time at the airport and will

-- 114 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-8
continue until released for applicable legal rest as provided in Hours of Service, Section 11.
However, if a Standby is awarded or assigned a sequence that checks-in prior to their initial
report time at the airport, they shall begin accruing duty time one (1) hour before a Domestic
or NIPD sequence’s scheduled departure or one (1) hour and fifteen (15) minutes before an
IPD sequence’s scheduled departure. If the Standby is not assigned a sequence, duty time
shall terminate at the end of the Standby shift. If the Standby is not assigned a sequence,
duty time will terminate when they are released at the end of the Standby shift. If the Standby
is assigned a sequence, duty time will terminate when they are released at the end of the duty
period for the assigned sequence.
7. In no event shall a combination of Standby and flight duty be scheduled to exceed the duty time
limitations of Hours of Service, Section 11, or International Flying, Section 14, whichever is
applicable.
8. If assigned a sequence, such sequence must be scheduled to depart no later than two (2) hours
after the Standby scheduled release time.
9. Standby Pay and Credit
a. A Standby who does not fly shall be entitled to three (3) hours and thirty (30) minutes for a
shift of four (4) hours, or five (5) hours and fifteen (15) minutes for a shift of six (6) hours,
and seven (7) hours for a shift of eight (8) hours.
b. A Standby who is awarded or assigned a sequence departing within their Standby shift
shall receive the scheduled or actual value of the sequence, whichever is greater. In
addition, the duty time while on Standby duty, up to the Standby’s sequence report time
(11.N. or 14.E.), based on departure time of the sequence at time of sequence assignment
shall be paid and credited with one (1) hour for each one and one-quarter (1.25) hours on
duty.
Example:
A Reserve has a Standby shift from 0600 to 1200. The Reserve is assigned a domestic
sequence originally scheduled to depart at 1100 (estimated time of departure at the time
of sequence assignment to the Standby). The Reserve would receive Standby duty rig pay
(one for one and one-quarter) for the time between 0600 Standby report and the 1000
Standby’s sequence report time in addition to the full value of the sequence.
Example:
A Reserve has a Standby shift from 0600 to 1200. At 1030, the Reserve is assigned a
domestic sequence originally scheduled to depart at 0500, but now with a departure time
of 1030 (estimated time of departure at the time of sequence assignment to the Standby).
The Reserve would receive Standby duty rig pay (one for one and one-quarter) for the time
between 0600 Standby report and the 0930 Standby’s sequence report time in addition to
the full value of the sequence.
Example:
A Reserve has a Standby shift from 0700 to 1300. The Reserve is assigned a domestic
sequence scheduled to depart at 0730 (estimated time of departure at the time of sequence
assignment to the Standby). The Reserve would receive no standby duty rig pay for the
Standby shift, however, the Reserve would receive duty rig pay (11.D.5.) based on the
0630 report time for the Standby sequence.
c. A Standby who is awarded or assigned a sequence departing outside their Standby shift
shall receive the scheduled or actual value of the sequence, whichever is greater. In
addition, the duty time while on Standby, and including any additional time up to the report

-- 115 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-9
time of the sequence, shall be paid and credited with one (1) hour for each one and one-
quarter (1.25) hours on duty.
Example:
A Reserve has a Standby shift from 0700 to 1100. The Reserve is assigned a domestic
sequence that departs at 1300 (estimated time of departure at time of sequence
assignment to the Standby). The Reserve Flight Attendant would receive daily duty rig
pay (one for one and one-quarter) for the time between 0700 Standby report and the 1200
Standby’s sequence report in addition to, and the full value of the sequence.
d. A Standby who is not released at the end of the scheduled Standby shift because of boarding
duty that is assigned before the end of the Standby shift and that continue beyond the end of
the Standby shift, shall be compensated for the additional time at the rate of one (1) minute of
pay and credit for each one (1) minute of duty beyond the end of the scheduled Standby shift.
10. For the purpose of sequence coverage, a Standby, if signed-in or scheduled to be on duty
one (1) hour before scheduled departure of an open time sequence, will be utilized for any
sequence that becomes available within two (2) hours of scheduled departure or any
sequence that remains uncovered within two (2) hours of scheduled departure.
11. A Reserve shall be given no less than two (2) hours’ notice and three (3) hours’ notice for a
co-terminal to report to the crew room for Standby duty.
12. Boarding duty, if utilized, will be based on days of availability, Standby report time, and in the
same terminal, unless Standbys are available for the same number of days, report time, and
are in the same terminal, in which case inverse seniority will be utilized.
13. A Standby will not be assigned boarding duty unless the estimated time of arrival of the
inbound crew is prior to the end of their Standby shift. If the crew does not arrive before the
end of the Standby shift, such Standby will be replaced by an oncoming Standby if available.
Such Standby will be released after the boarding of that flight and will not be subject to any
further boarding duties or flight assignments. A Standby may accept the boarding duties which
extend beyond the Standby shift and shall be paid in accordance with Paragraph F.9.d.
14. Duties of a Standby are limited to those assigned to other Flight Attendants.
15. If a Reserve is on Standby, any Standby Daily assignment shall take precedence over any
assignment by Future Scheduling.
16. A Standby will be assigned a sequence based on qualifications, days of availability, Standby
report time, and in the same terminal. If qualifications, days of availability, Standby report
times and terminal are the same, the assignment will be made by inverse seniority. A Standby
shall not be assigned a sequence into their Flex Day(s) unless they are the only Standby
available to operate the sequence and Crew Scheduling is unable to split the trip prior to their
Flex Day(s).
17. A Standby must be available for immediate contact and assignment while on Standby duty
but is not required to be present in the Standby room.
18. A Reserve may trade a Standby shift with another Reserve who has a Standby shift on the
same day. Such trade request must occur prior to the commencement of the Standby shift
but in no case later than 1500 HBT on the day the Standby shift is scheduled, concurrent with
Future Reserve Processing for the following day.

-- 116 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-10
19. A Standby may request to be released prior to the end of the standby shift. If Crew Scheduling
approves such request, the standby shift pay and credit will not be reduced.
G. RESERVE AVAILABILITY PERIOD (RAP)
1. There shall be no more than four (4) RAPs.
RAP A RAP B RAP C RAP D
• Start times
determined by
the Company,
RAP A could
start as early
as 0001 HBT
• Start times
determined by
the Company
• Start times
determined by
the Company
• 1400-0200 HBT (end time
will be 2359 HBT if last day
of Reserve block)
• Once all departures are
airborne, and there are no
known diversions or
returning flights, RAP will be
modified to end at that time
NOTE: The RAPs above are scheduled RAPs and may be modified in actual operations in
accordance with 12.E.5., if a Flight Attendant does not receive their full rest prior to the RAP
start time or in the case of a removal/cancellation in accordance with 12.M.6.b.
2. Crew Scheduling shall publish in the bid package the start times for each RAP for the following
bid period by each base. All RAPs shall begin on the hour. The availability window for each
RAP shall be twelve (12) hours. A Reserve will be automatically released at the end of their
assigned RAP if they are not given an assignment. A Reserve will be released from the last
RAP of the day no later than 2359 HBT of their last day of availability.
A Reserve will not be required to be contactable outside of their RAP. A Reserve will be
required to be available to accept a duty assignment during their twelve (12) hour RAP. The
sequence report may be no later than two (2) hours after the end of the RAP. For the purpose
of Paragraph G.2, the report time shall be the same as the crew assigned to the sequence or,
if the Reserve is joining a sequence in progress, the known departure time at the time of
assignment plus the check-in time (one (1) hour for Domestic or NIPD, or one (1) hour and
fifteen (15) minutes for IPD).NIPD). Sequence check-in times will not be shortened in order
to make an assignment.
Example:
A Reserve has a RAP 0300 to 1500. The original sequence was PHX-SEA-PHX-LAX-PHX. A
Reserve was called out to replace a Flight Attendant on the PHX-LAX-PHX portion. At the
time of the call, the PHX-LAX known departure time was 1805. The Reserve could not be
given the assignment since the check-in time would have been at 1705.
As an exception to G.2., a Reserve with a Flex Day following their RAP may only be assigned
a sequence with a sign-in on or before 2359 HBT on the last day of Reserve.
3. Reserves Flight Attendants may be assigned sequences or Standby shifts that report within a
RAP prior to the start of the RAP. At the commencement of a RAP, Reserves Flight Attendants
are responsible for reviewing and acknowledging all assignments through the automated
system, except as required in Section 12.P.
4. A Reserve on a RAP may be assigned a Standby shift that terminates no later than two (2)
hours after the end of their assigned RAP.

-- 117 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-11
5. At their option, a Reserve may extend the end of their RAP. A Reserve may not add the
extension to the beginning of the RAP. Extensions to the beginning of the RAP are subject to
Crew Scheduling discretion.
6. A Reserve may call Crew Scheduling to request to be released from a RAP. If granted, there
shall be no reduction in the Reserve’s guarantee. Such request may be made the day prior
or the day of and will be approved at the discretion of Crew Scheduling.
H. MINIMUM RESERVE CALL OUT TIME
1. A Reserve shall be required to report within two (2) hours from the time they are notified of a
sequence by Crew Scheduling. If a Reserve reports to the airport after sign-in time for the
sequence, they shall receive pay and credit for the sequence as if they had checked in for the
sequence at the same time as the rest of the crew. As an exception, Reserve Flight
Attendants at co-terminals shall be provided three (3) hours call out.
2. Former Shuttle Flight Attendants who were based in DCA on the date the Shuttle Fence was
removed will be grandfathered for a three (3) hour Reserve report time if they reside outside
of the two (2) hour Mainline report time, unless they bid to or are displaced to another base.
3. Crew Scheduling shall first attempt to contact a Reserve at the Reserve’s primary telephone
number. A Reserve may use a cellular phone number as their primary telephone number. If
a message device is encountered, the Scheduler shall leave a message.
4. If a secondary contact number is provided and Crew Scheduling is unable to contact a
Reserve at the Reserve’s primary telephone number, the Scheduler shall promptly attempt to
contact the Reserve on the secondary contact number. If a message device is encountered,
the Scheduler shall leave a message. The Reserve shall have fifteen (15) minutes to respond
to Crew Scheduling from the second call if a secondary contact number is provided, or fifteen
(15) minutes to respond to Crew Scheduling from the initial call if no secondary contact
number is provided.
I. FUTURE RESERVE BIDDING (ROTA)
1. A Reserve shall utilize an electronic system to submit a daily bid. Such daily bid must be
entered into the electronic system no later than 1500 1700 HBT for sequences which report
on or after 0200 HBT the next day through and including sequences that report until 0159
HBT the subsequent day. The Reserve may indicate that such standing bid which will remain
on file within the electronic system. Such bids shall be submitted through the electronic
system for the following:
a. Specific sequences (not applicable to standing bids);
b. Sequence preferences consistent with those available for TTS;
c. Specific Standby shifts; Each standby shift will be given a specific identifier (similar to
sequence numbers) with set start, end times, required days of availability, crew base, and
terminal.
d. Specific RAPs.
2. Crew Scheduling shall utilize the Reserve’s standing bid to complete a Reserve award or
assignment when a Reserve has not otherwise submitted a daily bid. If a standing bid is not
on file and the Reserve fails to submit a daily bid, Crew Scheduling shall assign that Reserve
during the processing of Reserve awards.

-- 118 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-12
J. FUTURE SCHEDULING AWARD AND ASSIGNMENT (ROTA)
1. The intent of this section is to provide an orderly process for covering all sequences and
Standby shifts which remain open at the time of future processing subject to the number of
Reserves who are legal and available to fly. If Crew Scheduling determines an operational
need due to insufficient Reserve coverage in a particular crew base, sequences may be
redistributed to another crew base(s). Crew Scheduling will redistribute all known open time
that needs to be allocated, based on operational need, to another crew base(s) by 1200 HBT.
As an exception, Crew Scheduling may redistribute at any time due to extenuating
circumstances not known prior to 1200 HBT. A snapshot of open sequences, Standby shifts
and Reserve bids will be taken at the commencement of future processing. Sequences or
Standby shifts which remain open after future processing will be assigned according to
Paragraph O. Other sequences and Standby shifts that subsequently open during future
processing will be assigned by Daily Scheduling according to Paragraph K.
2. Reserve awards and assignments shall begin one (1) day prior at 1500 HBT. Open sequence
positions which have not been awarded from the Unsuccessful Bidders List and which remain
open at 1500 HBT shall be awarded to Reserves.
3. For the purposes of determining whether a grouping is Open or Closed, the reference to a
sequence as used in Paragraph J, shall not include Standby shifts.
4. Crew Scheduling shall publish Standby, sequence, and RAP assignments for the following
day for sequences which report on or after 0200 HBT the next day through and including
sequences that report until 0159 HBT the subsequent day no later than 1930 HBT through an
automated system. A Reserve shall acknowledge the assignment through the automated
system, which may include a voice response system prior to 2230 HBT. If the Reserve is on
a sequence and unavailable to contact the automated system prior to 2230 HBT, they will be
responsible for reviewing and acknowledging their assignment through the automated system,
which may include a voice response system no later than one (1) hour after release.
5. Groupings of sequences and groupings of Reserves shall be established prior to the award or
assignment of sequences.
a. Reserves shall be grouped according to remaining number of RSV days in their current
RSV day sequence. Reserves with more than four (4) days of availability will be placed
in the four (4) day group.
b. Sequences shall be grouped according to number of calendar days each sequence
touches. ODAN sequences shall be placed in the two (2) day sequence group.
c. If the number of sequences in any sequence group is equal to or exceeds the number of
Reserves in the corresponding Reserve group, the group will be considered a “Closed”
group. A Reserve group will be considered and referred to as a Closed group until the
award or assignment of a sequence from the Closed group causes the number of
sequences in that group to fall below the corresponding number of Reserves in the group.
If at any time, the number of sequences in any sequence group is less than the number
of Reserves in the corresponding group, the group will be considered and referred to as
an “Open” Group.
As an exception, a Reserve in a Closed group at the time of processing may select an
IPD trip, a pure NIPD trip, or a one (1) day sequence greater than eight (8) hours and fifty-
nine (59) minutes block. This exception shall not apply during the period of November
15th through January 5th.

-- 119 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-13
As an exception, an Open group will be considered Closed at the point when at a
Reserve’s time of processing, sequences in higher groups would, at the end of
processing, remain uncovered. In such case a Reserve may be awarded or assigned to
work on Flex days.
Example:
There are two (2) Reserve(s) with two (2) days of availability (one of which has a Flex Day
and is the most senior Reserve), and one (1) Reserve with three (3) days of availability,
and three (3) Reserves with four (4) days of availability. All Reserves are legal for all
sequences. There is one (1) two-day sequence, two (2) three-day sequences, and one
(1) four-day sequence.
d. The A two-day Reserve with a Flex Day is not required to take the three-day sequence
because the total number of Reserves in the higher groupings (those with three (3) or four
(4) days of availability) equals four (4) Reserves, which is greater than the number of
sequences in groups three (3) and four (4) (three (3) sequences).
e. During Future Reserve Processing, Reserve will be given an option to:
i. Bid to fly a sequence;
ii. Bid for a Standby duty; or
iii. Conditionally Remain on Call (ROC) subject to covering all sequences and Standby
shifts which remain open at the time of future processing in accordance with Paragraph
J.10.
6. Sequences and Standby shifts which remain open after processing the list of Reserves shall
be assigned in inverse order of seniority in accordance with Paragraph J.9.
7. Sequence and Standby Shift Awards to Reserves on RSV Days
a. Sequences and Standby shifts shall be offered in seniority order to Reserves within the
base. The most senior Reserve on an RSV day regardless of days of their availability
grouping shall be processed first.
b. At the Reserve’s time of processing, if the grouping to which the Reserve belongs is
Closed, the Reserve must select a sequence from their grouping, except when sequences
in higher groups would, at the end of processing, remain uncovered. In such case a
Reserve may be awarded a sequence from a higher grouping.
c. At the Reserve’s time of processing, if the grouping to which the Reserve belongs is Open,
subject to Paragraph J.7.d, they may ROC. Such election shall be conditional and shall
not become final until all remaining sequences and Standby shifts are awarded or
assigned.
d. At the Reserve’s time of processing, if the grouping to which the Reserve belongs is Open,
subject to Paragraph J.5.c, the Reserve may select a sequence from their respective
grouping or a different grouping, conditionally ROC pursuant to Paragraph J.10, or select
a Standby shift. Such sequence may overlap the same or fewer days than the Reserve’s
scheduled RSV days. If such Reserve opts to choose a sequence from another group,
the Reserve may select from any group. The choice to operate a sequence with fewer
days than the Reserve has available:

-- 120 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-14
i. Shall not subsequently cause another Reserve to be flown into a Flex Day;
ii. Shall not cause a sequence to be split;
iii. Shall not cause a sequence to remain uncovered.
8. Sequence Awards to Reserves into One (1) or More Days Off
a. A Reserve may bid to voluntarily work into one (1) or more days off.
i. If at the time of processing the grouping to which the Reserve requests to join is closed,
they will be processed according to Paragraph J.5.c.
ii. If at the time of processing the grouping to which the Reserve requests to join is open,
they will not be awarded the requested sequence into their day off and will be
processed in seniority order in their own grouping.
b. Days off on which Reserves voluntarily operate shall not be reinstated.
9. Sequence Assignment to Reserves into One (1) or More Flex Days
a. A Reserve may be assigned a sequence by Future Scheduling into their Flex Day
consistent with this Section and Paragraph 12.O.4.
b. At a Reserve’s time of processing, if the Reserve’s corresponding grouping is Open and
the next highest grouping(s) is Closed, a Reserve may be assigned into one (1) or more
Flex Days according to Paragraph J.5.c.
10. Remain on Call (ROC)
a. At a Reserve’s time of processing, the choice to ROC:
i. Shall not subsequently cause another Reserve to be flown into a Flex Day;
ii. Shall not cause a sequence to be split;
iii. Shall not cause a sequence to remain uncovered.
b. At a Reserve’s time of processing, a Reserve may elect to ROC. However:
i. the Reserve may subsequently be assigned a sequence or Standby shift, after more
junior Reserves not legal to operate sequence(s) have been processed;
ii. the Reserve who is afforded the option to ROC may be assigned a remaining sequence
or Standby shift in the event that a more junior Reserve becomes unavailable during
processing (e.g., sick, daily assignment);
iii. such remaining sequences and Standby shifts will be assigned to the most junior
Reserves consistent with their preferences and seniority, while protecting Flex Days.
Example: Ten (10) Reserves were allowed to ROC in the initial run. Due to legality
issues, two (2) sequences and one (1) Standby shift remain to be assigned after the
initial run is processed. The sequences and Standby shifts will be assigned to three
(3) most junior remaining Reserves, starting with the third most junior’s preferences.

-- 121 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-15
c. Once a Reserve elects to ROC, the number of available Reserves in the grouping shall
be reduced by one (1). A Reserve’s election to ROC may cause a grouping to become
Closed.
d. At a Reserve’s time of processing, a Reserve who belongs to a Closed grouping may not
ROC.
e. A Reserve who ROCs shall be awarded a RAP pursuant to this Paragraph, and shall only
be assigned a sequence which reports within their RAP as specified in Paragraph K.
11. A Reserve awarded or assigned a sequence from Future Scheduling shall be required to
complete their Reserve duty (Standby/RAP or sequence) for the current day. At Crew
Scheduling’s discretion, a Reserve may be released from their current RAP. At the conclusion
of the Reserve’s current day assignment, they shall be released until the report time of the
RAP or Future Assignment the following day. Such Reserve shall be processed according to
the rules specified in Paragraph K.2, unless they indicate to Crew Scheduling they wish to be
assigned a sequence according to the regular Daily Processing rules.
12. RAP Awards
After all sequences and Standby shifts have been assigned, the remaining Reserves,
including those that elected to ROC, will be assigned as follows:
a. Crew Scheduling shall determine a minimum and maximum number of Reserves, if any,
to assign to each RAP for the following day. The total Reserves assigned shall be equal
to the number of Reserves available;
b. Reserves to be assigned to a RAP shall be placed in groupings based on their days of
availability. Such groupings shall be established for one (1) day of availability, two (2)
days of availability, three (3) days of availability and four (4) or more days of availability;
c. Reserves will be assigned to a RAP in seniority order within the days of availability
groupings utilizing the Reserve’s daily and standing bid, provided the Reserve is legal and
available for the entire RAP, except as provided in Paragraph E.5. The choice of RAPs
within that grouping for a senior Flight Attendant may not preclude a more junior Reserve
from receiving eleven (11) hours between RAPs. However, if there are not sufficient
Reserves to cover a particular RAP, a Reserve may be assigned to a RAP with less than
eleven (11) hours between their previous RAP.
13. Sequence Splits
a. In the event that the number of sequences in any sequence group exceeds the number
of Reserves in that group, Crew Scheduling may elect to split a sequence(s) to balance
the number of Reserves and sequences within a grouping.
b. In the event that Crew Scheduling elects to split sequences for Reserve processing, such
sequences shall be split prior to the beginning of or during the Future and Daily Reserve
award process for Reserve assignment or award.
K. DAILY SCHEDULING AWARD AND ASSIGNMENT (ROTD)
1. General

-- 122 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-16
a. Sequences which open during or after the Future Scheduling Award and Assignment
Process 1500 HBT one (1) day prior, and which report during the current or following day,
shall be assigned according to Paragraph K.
b. Release from Duty
i. Daily (Next Day Assignment) – A Reserve assigned a RAP for the next day, shall
complete their current day’s RAP assignment. If the Reserve receives an assignment
within their RAP for the next day, they shall be released from the next day’s RAP until
report time of such assignment. However, in the case of irregular operations as
declared by the Director of Crew Scheduling or their designee, the Reserve shall not
be released from the next day’s RAP and will be responsible to be available for possible
reassignment during their RAP.
ii. Daily (Day Of Assignment) – A Reserve on a RAP for the current day shall be released
from their RAP until the report time of an assigned sequence/Standby duty at the time
of such assignment. However, in the case of irregular operations as declared by the
Director of Crew Scheduling or their designee, the Reserve shall not be released from
their RAP and will be responsible to be available for possible reassignment during their
RAP.
c. The Company will award/assign open time trips through ROTD after running through
necessary processes (e.g., in-base UBL, out-of-base UBL, etc.) within sixty (60) minutes
from the end of the first UBL run. As an exception, trips that open less than three (3)
hours prior to departure (four (4) hours in co-terminal) will be immediately
awarded/assigned through ROTD after running through UBL (no holding). However, trips
that open any time from 0001-0500 HBT and depart after 1100 HBT may be held until
0700 HBT. The Company shall rerun UBL immediately prior to awarding/assigning any
trip(s) in ROTD.
c.d. An open Standby shift shall be treated the same as a sequence for the purpose of Daily
Awards and Assignments. Open sequence positions and Standby shifts which are
covered by this Paragraph K shall be assigned as soon as possible after such position
opens. Flight Attendants may be assigned sequences or Standby shifts that report within
a RAP prior to the start of the RAP. At the commencement of a RAP, Flight Attendants
are responsible for reviewing and acknowledging all assignments through the automated
system, except as provided in Paragraph P.4. A Flight Attendant shall not be called during
the period of 0000 to 0500 HBT unless the departure is within three (3) hours or unless
necessary to prevent a delay.
d.e. Groupings of sequences and groupings of Reserves shall be established for the purposes
of assigning sequences. All Reserves shall be grouped according to remaining number
of RSV days in their current RSV day sequence. Reserves with more than four (4) days
of availability will be placed in the four (4) day group. Reserves not legal for all RSV days
shall be placed in the group for which sequences they are legal to operate.
e.f. Groupings of Reserves on RSV days shall be ordered as follows:
i. RAP award;
ii. Least to most (ASG/Clicks) number of previous ROTA/D awards/daily assignments as
specified in Paragraph L;
iii. Then inverse seniority.

-- 123 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-17
f.g. If a sequence is legal for more than one (1) RAP, Crew Scheduling shall assign the
sequence as follows:
i. A Reserve in the earlier RAP according to K.2.b - e;
ii. A Reserve on a later RAP provided according to K.2.b - e;
iii. A Reserve in the earlier RAP according to K.2.f. – g.
iv. A Reserve in the later RAP according to K. 2.f. – g.
v. A Reserve on the earlier RAP according to K.2.g.
v.vi.A Reserve on the later RAP according to K.2.-g.
vi.vii. A Reserve on the earlier RAP according to K.2.h. – j.
vii.viii. A Reserve on the later RAP according to K. 2.h. – j.
ix. A Reserve on the earlier RAP according to K.2.i.
viii.x. A Reserve on the later RAP according to K.2.i.
ix.xi. K.2.j.
2. For sequences which are open more than two (2) hours prior to scheduled departure (three
(3) hours in co-terminal bases), Crew Scheduling shall assign such sequence in the following
order subject to the provisions of Paragraph K.1:
a. UBL Processing
i. A Flight Attendant Lineholders on the Unsuccessful Bidder’s list pursuant to
Scheduling, Section 10.F.3.b;
ii. Out-of-base Flight Attendants on the Unsuccessful Bidder’s List, pursuant to
Scheduling, Section 10.
b. “Aggressive Reserve” Processing
i. “Aggressive Reserves” on RSV days within their RAP, from the most senior to the most
junior, who are legal to operate the sequence in its’ entirety and provided the sequence
matches the Aggressive Reserve’s list of preferences as specified in Paragraph K.4.d.
An Aggressive Reserve called by Daily Scheduling during the Daily Reserve
Assignment process shall be required to accept any sequence which meets their list of
preferences;
ii. “Aggressive Reserves” on a Reserve Day(s) without a RAP, from the most senior to
the most junior, who are legal to operate the sequence in its’ entirety provided the
sequence matches the Aggressive Reserve’s list of preferences as specified in
Paragraph K.4.d.
b.c. Reserves on a RAP from the same grouping who are legal to operate the sequence in its
entirety according to the priority established in Paragraph K.1.f;

-- 124 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-18
c.d. Reserves on a RAP from the next highest grouping according to the priority established
in Paragraph K.1.f;
d.e. With Crew Scheduling consent, “Aggressive Reserves” on a RAP who indicate a desire
to work on or be awarded assigned into a Flex Day(s) or Golden Day(s) provided the
sequence matches the Aggressive Reserve’s list of preference as specified in Paragraph
K.4.d;
e.f. A Reserve on a RAP holding a Future assignment or award for the following day who can
operate the sequence in its entirety. Such Future assignment will be dropped;
f.g. Reserves on a RAP from any grouping who must work into one (1) Flex Day. Such
sequence shall be assigned according to the priority established in Paragraph K.1.f;
g.h. Reserves on a RAP from any grouping who must work on two (2) or more Flex Days.
Such sequence shall be assigned according to the priority established in Paragraph K.1.f;
h.i. Reserves on a RAP from any grouping who must work into one (1) Flex Day and holds
an ETB/TTS/UBL sequence on that Flex Day. Such ETB/TTS/UBL sequence will be
dropped and there will be no pay protection for the ETB/TTS/UBL sequence. Such
sequence assignment shall be assigned according to the priority established in Paragraph
K.1.f;
i.j. Sequences or Standby shifts which remain open after daily processing will be assigned
according to Paragraph O.
3. For sequences which open or remain open within two (2) hours prior to scheduled departure
(three (3) hours in co-terminal bases), Crew Scheduling shall assign such sequences in the
following order of assignment:
a. Less than Minimum Call-Out UBL for Lineholders and Reserves on days off;
b. Less than minimum Call-Out Out of Base Lineholders and Reserves on days off;
c. Less than Minimum Call-Out Aggressive Reserves;
a.d. A Standby Reserve if signed in or scheduled to be on duty and signed in at least one (1)
hour prior to departure according to the parameters of Paragraph F;
b.e. If no Standby is available, the order of assignment as specified in Paragraph K.2. If a
greater delay of a flight would be realized by using the provisions of Paragraph K.2, Crew
Scheduling may cover such flights by assigning a Standby if one is scheduled to be on
duty at the time of departure.
c.f. Crew Scheduling will assign sequences as specified in Paragraph K.2.b.-j, or Paragraph
O., such assignments will be awarded to the first positive contact with a Flight Attendant.
Although the fifteen (15) minute response time is still in effect, Crew Scheduling will not
be required to wait for a return call and will continue processing until positive contact is
made.
d.g. If the sequence continues to remain open, such assignment will be processed according
to the parameters of Paragraph O.
4. Aggressive Reserve Status

-- 125 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-19
a. A Reserve requesting to be awarded assigned first on RSV days or on RSV days into
Flex/ Days or Golden Days must electronically indicate placement into “Aggressive
Reserve” status. Such election may be made daily or for the entire month.
b. Once a Reserve reaches forty (40) hours awarded on Aggressive Reserve status of pay
and credit in a month, any additional hours awarded flown on Aggressive Reserve status
above the forty (40) hours shall not be credited when determining if the Reserve has met
or exceeded the monthly pay cap.
Example: A Reserve begins the month with forty (40) hours of vacation and has a
RSVCOT of forty (40) hours. The Reserve bids aggressive and is awarded a 20-hour
sequence and will have twenty (20) hours applied as aggressive hours. The Reserve will
have twenty (20) hours applied toward their calling out of time for a total of sixty (60) hours
(RSVCOT).
b.c. Credited hours will be calculated based on a Reserve’s month-to-date hours credited to
the minute, including credit associated with, but not limited to flight time, sick, vacation,
jury duty, bereavement, APFA business, deadhead, etc. Pay no credit hours,
ETB/TTS/UBL sequence time, etc., shall not be considered when calculating credited
hours. Credited hours shall be updated at 0000 of each day to reflect all hours credited
to that time.
c.d. Aggressive Reserves may indicate conditional status for sequences with the following
parameters:
i. Minimum notification time from assignment to departure;
ii. Sequence preferences consistent with those available in TTS;
iii. The Flex or Golden Days on which the Reserve is available;
iv. Avoid or Desire Standby shifts;
v. Contactable during uninterrupted rest;
vi.v.The RAP(s) for which the Reserve is available.
L. ASG INDICATOR
1. Each Reserve assigned or awarded by ROTA/D to a sequence will be credited with an
ASG code. At the time of assignment, the ASG Such code will be credited to a Reserve
once for each calendar day of the sequence. assigned by Daily Scheduling, except:
i. Aggressive Reserves assigned to a sequence by Daily Scheduling shall not be
credited with an ASG code for such assignment.
1.2. If the credited number of the ASG code is different than the number of days the Reserve
actually flew, then the Reserve may electronically request to have the ASG code adjusted.
2.3. After receiving the assigned ASG credit, if the Reserve is unable to report for the assigned
sequence, such credit will be removed.
4. The ASG code will be applied during the month in which the Reserve flew. For carryover
trips, the ASG code will be applied in the new month for those days the Reserve flew in
that month.

-- 126 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-20
M. RESERVE SEQUENCE CANCELLATION/REMOVAL
1. Prior to Report - If a Reserve is removed from their sequence prior to report due to illegality
or cancellation and no RAP was originally assigned, the Reserve shall assume duty for the
remainder of the RAP in which the sequence originally reported. If the sequence originally
reported in multiple RAPs, Crew Scheduling shall assign the Reserve to the earlier RAP.
2. After Report - If a Reserve reports to the airport for a sequence but does not fly (i.e., Reserve
reports on time and the flight departs without the Reserve), the Reserve shall only be required
to remain available for further scheduling purposes on that same day. Crew Scheduling may
require the Reserve to do one of the following:
a. be placed on standby duty (not to exceed six (6) hours) for the remainder of their RAP*, or;
b. be placed on standby duty (not to exceed six (6) hours) if no RAP originally assigned*, or;
c. Released from duty with applicable call-out pay
*A Reserve with any sequence assignment that day will use their report time for the original
sequence to determine the applicable maximum duty day. Pay and Credit for any Standby
time or assignments from Standby will be in accordance with Paragraph F.9.
3. After Report - If a Reserve reports to the airport for a sequence and the flight is delayed or
cancelled, the Reserve will be covered under Section 10.J.3.d. If the Reserve is not
rescheduled in accordance with Section 10.J.3.d., the Reserve may elect to be processed in
accordance with M.1 or M.2. If The Reserve elects M.2, Crew Scheduling will assign the
Reserve pursuant to M.2.a, b, or c. The Reserve will continue to have a Reserve obligation for
any remaining Reserve Day(s) that were part of the original sequence.
4. After Report (Standby)
a. If a Standby is assigned a sequence and the flight is delayed or cancelled and the crew is
removed from the sequence, the Reserve will be covered under Section 10.J.3.d. The
Reserve will continue to have a Reserve obligation for any remaining Reserve Day(s) that
were part of the original sequence.
b. If a Reserve is assigned a sequence from standby and the sequence is removed prior to
origination and not covered in a. above, the Reserve will return to the standby assignment.
5. After Origination - A Reserve who has originated a multi-day sequence and is removed mid-
sequence due to a reschedule or disruption, if not rescheduled, the Reserve will be released
once at base for the remainder of the day, unless rescheduled in accordance with Paragraph
O. The Reserve will continue to have a Reserve obligation for any remaining Reserve Day(s)
that were part of the original sequence.
6. ROTA/RAP Assignment for the Day Following the Cancellation/Removal
a. If the cancellation/removal occurs prior to the ROTA run for the following day, the Reserve
will be awarded/assigned in accordance with Paragraph J.
b. If the cancellation/removal occurs after ROTA has run for the following day, the Reserve
will be placed on a full RAP following legal rest. The Reserve may request to be placed on
a RAP with a modified start time to accommodate legal rest. Crew Scheduling may but is
not required to award the RAP with a modified start time to the Reserve. The RAP will

-- 127 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-21
begin one (1) minute after the completion of the required rest and will contain the same
end time as the original RAP. A Reserve will not be required to have more than one (1)
report on the same calendar day.
M.N. CALLING OUT OF TIME
The monthly maximum for Reserves will be consistent with the monthly maximum established for
Lineholders in each base. The Company may elect not to flex the monthly maximum for Reserves
when increasing the monthly maximum for Lineholders during a flex month as provided in Section
10.D.11.d. A Reserve will not be required to accept an assignment that would result in them
exceeding the monthly maximum. A Reserve shall not be required to be on call once they have
reached the monthly maximum less the value of a minimum day and will be released from any
obligation to remain on call for the remainder of the month. At the time of processing, Crew
Scheduling will allow a Reserve to ROC or to accept the sequence and exceed the monthly
maximum or at Crew Scheduling’s discretion, split a sequence to allow a Reserve to reach the
monthly maximum. As specified in Paragraph K.4.b, pay and credit hours awarded or assigned
while in Aggressive Reserve status shall not be credited when determining if the Reserve has met
or exceeded the monthly cap.
N.O. PRIORITY OF TRIP ASSIGNMENT
The intent of this section is to provide an orderly process for covering all sequences and Standby
shifts which remain open after future or daily processing. The priority of assignment will be as
follows:
1. Transfer sequence(s) to other bases. Out-of-base Reserves, in accordance with inverse
seniority, avoiding conflicts with Golden Days and vacation days and, when possible, with Flex
Days. An out-of-base Reserve so assigned may choose which sequence she/he will be
assigned if more than one sequence remains open at the time of assignment.
2. A Reserve on a RAP who was previously assigned a sequence by Daily may be reassigned
according to Paragraph K.2.f, and Scheduling, Sections 10.J.4 and 10.J.5.
a. Reserves will be assigned in the following manner:
i. Assigning Awarding the earliest departure to the least senior Reserve with a whose
previously assigned sequence, reports at 1200 HBT or later and who is available to fly
the sequence in its entirety; or
ii. If no Reserve is available to take the sequence in its entirety without creating a conflict
with their Flex Days, the sequence will be assigned in inverse seniority order such that
disruption of Flex Days is minimized.
b. A previously assigned unreleased available for duty Reserve who previously volunteered
to take an assignment on a RSV day(s) that continues into their Flex Day(s) or Golden
Day(s) shall not be reassigned unless there are no other Reserves available to take such
a trip, but in no case will the Reserve Flight Attendant be reassigned into their Golden
Day(s).
c. A Reserve who voluntarily makes themself available on days free from duty (Flex Day(s)
and or Golden Day(s)) to Future or Daily Scheduling for a sequence that originates on a
Flex Day(s) or Golden Day(s) shall not be reassigned.
d. A Reserve who is awarded or assigned a different sequence(s) of a lesser value shall be
pay protected to the published value of such originally awarded or assigned sequence.

-- 128 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-22
To be eligible for such pay protection, such Reserve must remain available for duty for all
of the duty periods covered by the originally awarded or assigned sequence.
3. At the option of Crew Scheduling, to legal and available inbound Reserves.
4. A Reserve on a Flex Day in inverse seniority order.
5. To a legal and available member of Inflight management holding a seniority number on the
System Seniority List.
5.6. A Lineholder on days off in inverse seniority order. The following limitations, in addition to
those in Hours of Service, Section 11, shall apply:
a. A Lineholder shall not be involuntarily assigned while on vacation or on groupings of days
off that touch a vacation period;
b. A Lineholder shall not be involuntarily assigned more than twice per bid period;
c. Crew Scheduling shall only use a Lineholder’s contact numbers when calling to make an
involuntary assignment.
d. If the involuntary assignment causes the Flight Attendant’s line to be projected over their
TTS bidding credit window and there is not a trip(s) or segment(s) occurring after the
involuntary assignment which could be dropped to bring their line projection into the TTS
bidding credit window, the Flight Attendant may refuse the involuntary assignment. A
Flight Attendant who is involuntarily assigned a trip will have the option of flying their
sequence(s) later in the month and exceeding the TTS bidding credit window, splitting a
later sequence of the Flight Attendant’s choice off at a point at or below the monthly
maximum pursuant to Scheduling, Section 10.M, or dropping a later trip of the Flight
Attendant’s choice.
O.P. SEQUENCE VERIFICATION AND RESERVE SIGN CHECK-IN
1. Each time a Reserve logs into the crew tracking system, the that Reserve shall be required to
electronically acknowledge all changes to that Reserve’s line in the current bid period and the
next bid period, if applicable, before proceeding to any other function in the crew tracking
system.
2. A Reserve shall be required to check their future assignment (ROTA) as specified in Paragraph
J.4.
3. Daily assignments (ROTD) for the following day occurring between 1800 and 0200 HBT after
ROTA processing will be added to the Crew Scheduling system and will require the Reserve
to electronically may acknowledge such the assignment prior to the commencement of their
RAP. However, Reserves who have already acknowledged an assignment for the following
day will be notified of any sequence reassignment by positive contact.
2.4. At the commencement of a RAP, it is the Reserve’s responsibility to review and acknowledge
through an electronic system any assignment that has already been added to their schedule.
The Reserve shall receive a receipt confirming the acknowledgement. As an exception to this,
Crew Scheduling must make positive contact with any Reserve with a RAP commencing
between 0000-0500 HBT if the Reserve has not already acknowledged the assignment through
the electronic system and received a receipt confirming the acknowledgement. A Reserve with
a RAP commencing between 0000-0500 HBT will not be required to acknowledge the
award/assignment at the start of their RAP.her/his schedule.

-- 129 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-23
5. Daily assignments (ROTD) for the same day, occurring after 0200 to a Reserve once the RAP
has commenced, will be made by positive contact, unless the Flight Attendant has electronically
acknowledged the assignment. A Flight Attendant shall not be called during the period of 0000-
0500 HBT unless the departure is within three (3) hours or unless necessary to prevent a delay.
3.6. If a Reserve fails to acknowledge an assignment(s) as required, Crew Scheduling may remove
the Reserve from the affected sequence. In that case, the Reserve shall forfeit all pay and
credit associated with the sequence and their guarantee may be adjusted as specified in
Paragraph U.
4.7. If a Reserve has not checked-in for a sequence by ten (10) minutes past the scheduled report
time, Crew Scheduling may remove the Reserve from the affected sequence. In that case, the
Reserve shall forfeit all pay and credit associated with the sequence and their guarantee may
be adjusted as specified in Paragraph U.
P.Q. ASSIGNMENT/REPORT INFORMATION
The Company shall provide a Reserve access to an electronic reserve status system providing
real-time information that allows a Reserve to view the following. The system shall run continuously
in the crew tracking system and be accessible through the Internet.
The following information will be provided by 1200 HBT daily and updated on a real-time basis:
1. Reserve’s name, seniority number, reserve availability shift, and bids, which shall be sorted
and displayed by seniority;
2. Date, sequence number, sequence credit, and release time of last assignment;
3. Date, sequence number, sequence credit, and release time of current assignment;
4. Date, sequence number, and time current sequence was assigned by Crew Scheduling;
5. Total bid period-to-date earned pay and credit and bid period projected pay and credit;
6. Days of availability remaining; and,
7. Number of Flex Days off adjacent to last day of reserve availability.
8. All standby shifts; start time, base, duration, airport and terminal, minimum days of availability
required, and how many Reserves needed for each standby shift.
9. Number of Reserves required for RAP and number of speaker positions by language required
for each RAP.
10. For each Reserve on standby, the Reserve’s name, seniority number, employee number, start
time and end time, airport and terminal, activity if assigned (sequence and boardings), if
released or extended for standby, days of availability, and total bid period-to-date earned pay
and credit and bid period projected pay and credit.
Q.R. NOT LEGAL TO FLY
If as a result of unscheduled conflicts that would cause a Flight Attendant to remain on duty/on call
for seven (7) consecutive calendar days or more without twenty-four (24) consecutive hours free
from all restraint or duty, an off day (not legal to fly day) will be scheduled on the day following the
termination of the assignment.

-- 130 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-24
R.S. MONTH TO MONTH INTEGRATION
1. Reserve to Lineholder
If an assignment of a sequence which continues from one month into the next is necessary,
the Flight Attendant shall operate such sequence in its entirety.
Such Reserve shall not be assigned a sequence until after the point in the Reserve order of
assignment language in which Reserves have been assigned sequences into Flex Days. Such
Reserve will be pay protected for any flight time lost, if applicable, as a result of operating the
continuation of such sequence. If an assignment of a sequence in the current month causes
an illegality for a sequence in the subsequent month, pay protection provided for consistent
with Illegal Through No Fault shall apply.
2. Lineholder to Reserve
A transition sequence awarded during PBS, TTS, or ETB which overlaps Flex or Golden days
in the subsequent month shall be paid as pay no credit and such days off shall not be restored.
A transition sequence awarded during PBS, TTS, or ETB which overlaps available days in the
subsequent month shall be paid as pay and credit. If such sequence has been awarded prior
to PBS, the Flight Attendant shall be able to elect during the PBS bid whether to treat the trip
as RSV or days off.
S.T. RESERVE TRIP TRADING/DROPPING
1. Reserve Trip Trades
a. A Reserve may trade a reserve assignment with another Flight Attendant.
b. Time will be pay and credit and will not affect reserve guarantee.
c. Reserve trip trades on days off will be as specified in Scheduling, Section 10.
2. Reserve Trip Drop to Another Flight Attendant
A Reserve may utilize the ETB or Trades through Crew Scheduling to relinquish a trip
sequence to another Flight Attendant.
a. A Reserve relinquishing a trip sequence will have their Reserve Guarantee reduced by
the value of the relinquished trip and such hours will be applied to their monthly maximum.
b. All legalities related to the dropped trip sequence will be assumed, as scheduled to be
flown. A Reserve at their option may waive such home base rest consistent with
Scheduling, Section 10.
T.U. RESERVE FLIGHT ATTENDANTS WITH MISSED TRIPS
When a Reserve Flight Attendant receives a missed trip for a particular assignment, the Flight
Attendant will be subject to one (1) of the following options:
1. Release from their availability obligation for the remainder of the day. If this option is
chosen, then the Reserve’s guarantee will be docked for that one (1) day only. The Flight
Attendant will then be released until their next day of obligation to the Company.

-- 131 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-25
2. Remain available for the remainder of that day. In this option, Crew Scheduling may, at
its discretion, either: 1) assign the Flight Attendant to another trip; 2) assign the Flight
Attendant to airport Standby; or 3) assign the Flight Attendant back to their reserve
obligation for that day. If the Flight Attendant is held available to Crew Scheduling under
Paragraph U and is not assigned another sequence or Standby duty, then their guarantee
will not be docked for that day, even if a trip is not assigned for that day.
3. Under the options in Paragraphs U.1.a and U.1.b, the original missed trip will remain on
the Flight Attendant’s record for attendance purposes.
U.V. GENERAL
1. When an award or assignment is given to a Reserve, Crew Scheduling will identify the
published sequence number. If it is an unpublished sequence, the Reserve will be notified of
the entire sequence, including routing, duty time, credit, sequence number(s), aircraft type(s),
report time, and release time. If the layover hotel is different from the normally scheduled
hotel, the Reserve will also be notified of the contact number and any special transportation
arrangements.
2. All times in this Section are HBT unless otherwise specified.
V.W. EXCEPTION TO STANDBY ASSIGNMENTS - (OUT-OF-BASE RESERVE STANDBY
ASSIGNMENT) (MOVED FROM 13.I)
1. A Reserve may be assigned or awarded a Reserve Standby shift in another base if the
company determines that there are no remaining Reserves in that base to cover the Reserve
Standby shift(s). Such assignment will be in accordance with Reserve Duty, Section 12. The
Reserve must have the days and hours of availability specified in Reserve Duty, Section 12.F,
in addition to any credit or block hours associated with the deadhead to/from the out-of-base
Reserve Standby assignment. In addition, if accepting the out-of-base assignment, including
the deadhead to the assignment, would cause the Flight Attendant to exceed the provisions
of Hours of Service, Section 11, the Flight Attendant shall have the option of refusing the
assignment.
2. A Reserve on an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment shall receive the greater of the
following:
a. Trip Rig from time of check-in for departure from the Reserve’s base until released in their
base;
b. If not assigned a trip while on Reserve Standby Duty, Reserve Standby pay in addition to
the greater of the deadhead(s) credit or Duty Rig, excluding time spent on Reserve
Standby;
c. If assigned a trip while on Reserve Standby Duty, the value of the trip in addition to the
greater of the deadhead(s) pay or Duty Rig until report time for the trip. Additionally, the
Flight Attendant will receive the greater of the deadhead credit or Duty Rig from release
from the trip until release in their base.
d. A Flight Attendant will receive no less than the minimum daily average for any day(s)
spent deadheading to or from an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment or any days
spent on an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment. If a Flight Attendant deadheads
and serves Reserve Standby in the same day, such Flight Attendant will only receive
minimum guarantee for that day.

-- 132 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
12-26
3. If deadheading to the Reserve Standby assignment, the Duty Rig in Paragraphs W.2.b and
W.2.c will start at check-in for the deadhead flight. If deadheading back to the base, the Duty
Rig will end at checkout in the Flight Attendant’s base. The value of the Reserve Standby
shift and/or sequence will be as established in Reserve Duty, Section 12.F. Deadheads to
and from an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment will receive one hundred percent
(100%) deadhead pay and credit.
4. A Flight Attendant already on Reserve Standby Duty in their base may receive an out-of-base
Reserve Standby assignment only if they have the days and hours of availability for the new
Reserve Standby assignment as specified in Paragraph W.1. The start of the Reserve
Standby shift in their base shall be used for purposes of calculating the Duty and Trip Rigs
specified in Paragraph W.2 and the minimum guarantee for the day.
5. Any out-of-base Reserves on Reserve Standby Duty will be processed in seniority order
among themselves regardless of the shift start time after in base Reserve Standbys have been
offered the trips.

-- 133 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
13-1
SECTION 13 - TEMPORARY DUTY ASSIGNMENT (TDY)
A. DETERMINATION AND DURATION OF TEMPORARY DUTY
1. A temporary duty assignment (TDY) is an assignment to perform Reserve duties at a crew
base other than a Reserve’s own crew base. If the Company determines that additional
Reserves are required to meet the flying requirements in a crew base, the Company will
announce such temporary duty vacancies for bid and assignment among Reserves at other
crew bases where the Company has determined that Reserves are available to cover such
temporary duty.
2. TDY assignments may be for a duration of one (1) week, two (2) weeks or a full bid month,
including any days spent deadheading into and out of the TDY crew base. The Company may
deadhead a Reserve the day before a TDY assignment only if the Reserve is on an RSV day,
in which case the Reserve will receive Per Diem and the additional hours provided in
Paragraph D.3, prorated on a daily basis. Any sequence assigned to a TDY Reserve at the
TDY crew base must end within the TDY period, except as provided in this Paragraph. When
an assignment is necessary and no other Reserves are available in the TDY crew base, a
TDY Reserve may be assigned a sequence that extends beyond the TDY period. If a
sequence extends beyond the TDY period, the additional hours provided for in Paragraph D.3
shall be prorated on a daily basis for the additional day(s) beyond the original TDY period until
the TDY Reserve returns to their crew base. If coverage permits, the sequence will be split
at the TDY Reserve’s option at a Flight Attendant crew base to avoid or minimize the TDY
extension. The TDY Reserve will continue to receive Per Diem until released in their crew
base.
B. LIMITS TO AWARD AND ASSIGNMENT
1. TDY vacancies will be for Reserve positions only.
2. TDY vacancies will be available for bid by Reserves and will be awarded in accordance with
Seniority, Section 20. TDY vacancies will be posted electronically and in the crew rooms for
at least forty-eight (48) hours unless the Company receives approval for a shorter period from
APFA. Notification of the award will be posted electronically, in the crew rooms and by phone
call to the Reserve awarded such assignment.
3. The TDY posting shall provide the following information about each TDY assignment:
a. Number of projected TDY positions available;
b. Location of TDY assignment(s);
c. Report date for TDY assignment(s);
d. Projected length of TDY assignment(s);
e. Date and time when TDY bids will be awarded; and,
f. Foreign language required, if applicable.
4. In the event of insufficient bidders, TDY may be assigned in inverse seniority order to
Reserves from the crew base designated by the Company in accordance with Seniority,
Section 20, except that no Reserve may be assigned to temporary duty for:

-- 134 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
13-2
a. Two (2) consecutive months;
b. More than two (2) months in any twelve (12) consecutive months.
5. A Reserve with a leave of absence, injury on duty or TDY that overlaps a TDY period may not
be awarded or assigned to TDY during such period.
6. A Reserve who voluntarily bids and is awarded TDY with a vacation contained within or
overlapping a TDY period will forfeit their vacation, except for pay and credit purposes. A
Reserve forfeiting vacation pursuant to this Paragraph will revert back to the Reserve’s original
schedule (pre-vacation move). A Reserve with a vacation that overlaps a TDY period will not
be involuntarily assigned to TDY.
7. As an exception to Reserve Duty, Section 12, a Reserve who voluntarily bids for and is
awarded a one (1) week TDY will have their Golden Days contained within the one (1) week
TDY period converted into Flex Days.
8. A foreign language speaker Reserve may be restricted from being awarded a non-foreign
language speaker assignment because of limited staffing within their language in their crew
base. A foreign language speaker Reserve may only be involuntarily assigned to non-foreign
language speaker TDY assignment when there are no non-foreign language speaker
Reserves available for assignment from any crew bases that are offering TDY assignments.
9. If the Company posts a TDY vacancy requiring a foreign language speaker, it will be
processed in the following order:
a. Foreign language speaker Reserves bidding for the position in accordance with
Paragraph B.2;
b. If there are no volunteers, a foreign language speaker Reserve may be involuntarily
assigned to a foreign language speaker position in accordance with Paragraph B.4.
C. EXPENSES
1. A Reserve awarded or assigned to TDY will receive the following:
a. Acceptable hotel facilities for the duration of their temporary duty that meets the standards
set forth in Crew Accommodations, Section 6;
b. Per Diem as provided in Expenses, Section 4, for the TDY assignment commencing one
(1) hour prior to departing from the Flight Attendant’s home crew base and continuing until
fifteen (15) minutes after arrival at their home crew base at the conclusion of the TDY
assignment;
c. The cost of a compact size rental car, including gas and hotel parking, supported by
receipt(s). The Reserve shall request the car through the Company contact designated
in the TDY information provided by the Company. Insurance for the rental car shall be
provided by the Company. At the Reserve’s option, they will be reimbursed for other
transportation, in lieu of a rental car, not to exceed the cost of a compact size rental car;
d. Reasonable telephone access fees and one (1) long distance telephone call per day from
the TDY hotel facility to a party of the Reserve’s choosing, not to exceed five (5) minutes;
e. Actual laundry and cleaning expenses, supported by receipt(s), for uniforms and personal
clothing for Reserves on a TDY assignment of seven (7) calendar days or more.

-- 135 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
13-3
2. A Reserve may request and shall receive an advance on any expenses provided for in this
Section, prior to departing from their crew base for any TDY assignment of seven (7) calendar
days or more. Such a request must be made in writing to the Flight Attendant’s Inflight
Manager at least five (5) business days before the scheduled departure. If the Reserve is
given less than five (5) business days’ notice of the TDY assignment, the Reserve may request
the advance and shall receive the advance as soon as practicable.
D. PAY AND CREDIT
A Reserve awarded or assigned to TDY will receive the following:
1. Deadhead pay in accordance with Deadheading, Section 16, to and from their temporary duty;
2. Pay and duty rig credit/ duty period minimum as if based in the TDY crew base, except a
deadhead shall be calculated as beginning or ending in the Reserve’s home crew base, as
applicable;
3. Monthly pay guarantee equal to the Flight Attendant’s regular applicable monthly guarantee,
plus five (5) additional hours for each week awarded or assigned TDY or twenty (20) additional
hours for a full bid month;
4. In the event a one (1) week or two (2) week TDY assignment spans a monthly transition, the
additional guarantee shall be prorated on a daily basis;
5. A Reserve who voluntarily accepts or is assigned a sequence that extends beyond the TDY
period will be paid the additional guarantee prorated on a daily basis as provided in Paragraph
A.2;
6. A deadhead on a day preceding or following a TDY assignment will be paid and credited at
the duty period minimum;
7. A foreign language speaker Reserve on a TDY assignment shall receive foreign language
speaker and International premiums as provided in the chart below.
FOREIGN LANGUAGE SPEAKER PREMIUM
TDY BID AND AWARD TDY INVOLUNTARILY ASSIGNED
Speaker to Speaker
Speaker premium on Reserve guarantee
Speaker premium for all speaker flying
Speaker to Speaker
Speaker premium on Reserve guarantee
Speaker premium for all Speaker flying
Speaker to non-Speaker
No speaker premium on Reserve guarantee
No speaker premium on any flying
Speaker to non-Speaker
Speaker premium on Reserve guarantee
Speaker premium for all Speaker flying

-- 136 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
13-4
INTERNATIONAL (INTL) PREMIUM
E. SCHEDULING
1. A TDY Reserve will retain their schedule from their home crew base at the TDY crew base. If
necessary to adjust staffing, the Company may utilize the provisions of Reserve Duty, Section
12, to move the Reserve’s Flex Days. A Reserve’s Golden Days shall remain the same unless
converted to Flex Days pursuant to Paragraph B.7, or adjusted as provided in Paragraph E.6.
If the Reserve is awarded a full bid month TDY prior to the bid award for the TDY month, the
Reserve shall bid a line in their home crew base for use in the TDY crew base.
2. A Reserve involuntarily assigned TDY will receive no less than the following:
a. Two (2) Golden Day periods of four (4) days each with positive space travel to and from
the Reserve’s crew base for a full bid month TDY assignment;
b. Two (2) Golden Days with positive space travel to and from the Reserve’s crew base for
a TDY assignment of two (2) weeks. Such Golden Days will be in addition to the Flight
Attendant’s regularly scheduled eight (8) Golden Days provided the regularly scheduled
periods of Golden Days fall completely outside of the TDY assignment;
c. The Golden Days in Paragraphs E.2.a and E.2.b, will be considered part of the Reserve’s
twelve (12) days off per month.
3. As an exception to Filling of Vacancies, Section 22, a Reserve serving TDY for a bid month
will not be placed on the crew base scheduling roster until the first day of the TDY assignment
and will be taken off the roster on the last day of the TDY assignment.
4. As an exception to Seniority, Section 20, a Reserve on TDY will be processed after the crew
base Reserves are processed.
5. As an exception to Reserve Duty, Section 12, a Reserve who is awarded or assigned TDY for
a full bid month will receive their required days free of duty at the TDY crew base, except as
provided in Scheduling, Section 10.
TDY BID AND AWARD TDY INVOLUNTARILY ASSIGNED
Intl eligible TDY to Intl eligible
Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on Intl flying only
Intl eligible TDY to Intl eligible
Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on all flying
Intl eligible TDY to Non-Intl eligible
No Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on Intl flying only
Intl eligible TDY to Non-Intl eligible
Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on all flying
Non-Intl eligible TDY to Non-Intl eligible
No Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on Intl flying only
Non-Intl eligible TDY to Non-Intl eligible
No Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on Intl flying only
Non-Intl eligible TDY to Intl eligible
Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on Intl flying only
Non-Intl eligible TDY to Intl eligible
Intl premium on Reserve guarantee
Intl premium on Intl flying only

-- 137 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
13-5
6. A Reserve who is awarded or assigned TDY for a two (2) week period shall have the option
to move any or all of their Golden Days to mutually agreeable dates at their crew base, either
before or after, but not during the period of their TDY assignment.
7. As an exception to Reserve Duty, Section 12, a Reserve who is awarded or assigned TDY
may not be awarded any sequence(s) in their crew base that occurs on such TDY assignment.
F. The Company will be responsible for maintaining current records of all flying assigned to Reserves
on TDY. Such records will be accessible to the Reserves in the crew base out of which the TDY
assignments have been flown in the Crew Management System.
G. All TDY assignments will include positive space travel to and from the Reserve’s crew base. A
Reserve will not be required to work a flight to or from the TDY assignment. If positive space travel
is provided for pilots to and from their residence to TDY crew bases, the same provisions will be
extended to Flight Attendants.
H. OUT-OF-BASE SINGLE SEQUENCE ASSIGNMENT (MOVED TO 12.J.1.)
If it is determined that Reserve coverage at another base is temporarily inadequate, the Company
may award or assign an individual sequence from the base that is short to a Reserve from another
base where the Company has determined that Reserves are available to cover such assignment.
Crew Schedule will offer such out-of-base sequence to Reserves pursuant to Reserve Duty,
Section 12. On-duty time for purposes of scheduling legalities, credited flight time and Per Diem
shall begin to accrue in the Reserve’s home base, one (1) hour before scheduled departure and
shall continue until fifteen (15) minutes after her/his arrival back at her/his home base, or until actual
release time, whichever is later.
I. OUT-OF-BASE RESERVE STANDBY ASSIGNMENT (MOVED TO 12.W.)
1. A Reserve may be assigned or awarded a Reserve Standby shift in another base if the
Company determines that there are no remaining Reserves in that base to cover the Reserve
Standby shift(s). Such assignment will be in accordance with Reserve Duty, Section 12. The
Reserve must have the days and hours of availability specified in Reserve Duty, Section 12.F,
in addition to any credit or block hours associated with the deadhead to/from the out-of-base
Reserve Standby assignment. In addition, if accepting the out-of-base assignment, including
the deadhead to the assignment, would cause the Flight Attendant to exceed the provisions
of Hours of Service, Section 11, the Flight Attendant shall have the option of refusing the
assignment.
2. A Reserve on an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment shall receive the greater of the
following:
a. Trip Rig from time of check-in for departure from her/his base until released in her/his
base;
b. If not assigned a trip while on Reserve Standby Duty, Reserve Standby pay in addition to
the greater of the deadhead(s) credit or Duty Rig, excluding time spent on Reserve
Standby;
c. If assigned a trip while on Reserve Standby Duty, the value of the trip in addition to the
greater of the deadhead(s) pay or Duty Rig until report time for the trip. Additionally, the
Flight Attendant will receive the greater of the deadhead credit or Duty Rig from release
from the trip until release in her/his base.

-- 138 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
13-6
d. A Flight Attendant will receive no less than the minimum daily average for any day(s)
spent deadheading to or from an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment or any days
spent on an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment. If a Flight Attendant deadheads
and serves Reserve Standby in the same day, such Flight Attendant will only receive
minimum guarantee for that day.
3. If deadheading to the Reserve Standby assignment, the Duty Rig in Paragraphs I.2.b and I.2.c
will start at check-in for the deadhead flight. If deadheading back to the base, the Duty Rig
will end at checkout in the Flight Attendant’s base. The value of the Reserve Standby shift
and/or sequence will be as established in Reserve Duty, Section 12.F. Deadheads to and
from an out-of-base Reserve Standby assignment will receive one hundred percent (100%)
deadhead pay and credit.
4. A Flight Attendant already on Reserve Standby Duty in her/his base may receive an out-of-
base Reserve Standby assignment only if she/he has the days and hours of availability for the
new Reserve Standby assignment as specified in Paragraph I.1. The start of the Reserve
Standby shift in her/his base shall be used for purposes of calculating the Duty and Trip Rigs
specified in Paragraph I.2 and the minimum guarantee for the day.
5. Any out-of-base Reserves on Reserve Standby Duty will be processed in seniority order
among themselves regardless of the shift start time after in base Reserve Standbys have been
offered the trips.
J.H.All applicable provisions of this Agreement, and any related Side Letters in this Agreement, shall
apply to TDY except as specifically modified in this Section.

-- 139 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-1
SECTION 14 - INTERNATIONAL FLYING
A. All applicable provisions of this Agreement and any related Side Letters included in this Agreement
shall apply to International flying, except as specifically modified in Section 14.
B. DEFINITIONS
1. “International” is defined as any operating or deadheading flight outside the forty-eight (48)
contiguous United States with the exception of Canada and Alaska. This exception does not
apply if a flight originates outside the contiguous forty-eight (48) United States and proceeds
non-stop to Canada, or Alaska and vice versa.
2. “International Premium Destination” (IPD) is defined as any operating or deadheading
flight to/from Europe, Asia, and destinations in Deep South America, e.g., Rio de Janeiro, Sao
Paulo, Santiago, Chile and Buenos Aires etc., that have a premium level of service
comparable to European destinations. Hawaii and other destinations will also be considered
International Premium Destinations if the routes include a premium level of service.
3. “Non-International Premium Destination” (NIPD) is International flying that does not meet
the definition of International Premium Destination Flying.
4. “Non-Long Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which does not contain
flying in excess of twelve (12) hours block. The on-duty period will not be scheduled or
rescheduled to exceed fourteen (14) hours.
5. “Mid-Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which does not contain flying
in excess of twelve (12) hours block. The on-duty period will be scheduled or rescheduled for
more than fourteen (14) hours, but not to exceed fifteen (15) hours.
6. “Long-Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which has a scheduled
International segment in excess of twelve (12) hours block but not more than fourteen (14)
hours and fifteen (15) thirty (30) minutes block.
7. “Extended-Long-Range Flying” is defined as any International duty period which has a
scheduled International segment in excess of fourteen (14) hours and fifteen thirty minutes
(15) (30) block.
C. INTERNATIONAL PAY
A Flight Attendant will receive International Pay as specified in Compensation, Section 3.

-- 140 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-2
D. INTERNATIONAL DUTY TIME LIMITATIONS
Duty Type On-Duty Max Block
excluding
deadhead
Segment Restrictions
Max Scheduled Max Actual
Non-Long
Range 14:00 16:00 12:00
A duty period may include
any mix of International or
International and Domestic
segments.
Mid-Range 15:00 17:00* 12:00
A duty period may include
either one (1) Domestic
segment and one (1) IPD
segment or
a one-day turn (2 NIPDs) or
two (2) NIPD segments.
Long Range 16:00 18:00 14:15 A duty period may include
one (1) IPD segment (only).
Extended
Long Range
Flt time plus
sign-in/de-brief,
max 20:00
Original
scheduled
duty plus 3:00
NA A duty period may include
one (1) IPD segment (only).
*Exceeding sixteen (16) hours on-duty maximum in actual operations will be subject to the two
hundred percent (200%) pay premium as described below.
Note: The total number of mid-range duty periods will be limited to no more than five percent (5%)
of all International duty periods system wide.
No more than fifteen percent (15%) of all duties which operate between such crew base and
Hawaii shall be scheduled in the Mid-Range category.
Mid-Range duties scheduled between any crew base and Hawaii shall not span the duty hours
beginning at 0100 and ending at 0400 (HBT).
1. Non-Long Range Duty Period
a. An on-duty period, containing an International segment(s) or International and Domestic
segments, shall not be scheduled or rescheduled to remain on-duty in excess of fourteen
(14) consecutive hours and, in no case, shall a Flight Attendant be required to remain on
duty in excess of sixteen (16) hours during any such on-duty period. A Flight Attendant
shall not be required to remain on-duty beyond the maximum flight duty limits as specified
in this Paragraph.
b. If the combination of a delayed departure time and scheduled flight time(s) projects the
Flight Attendant’s duty to exceed the maximum duty of sixteen (16) hours, Crew Scheduling
may electronically offer, and the a Flight Attendant may voluntarily agree electronically to
continue working. The Company will electronically offer VE to each A Flight Attendant and
each Flight Attendant will respond with an accept or reject. The Lead/Number 1 Flight
Attendant will be the contact to follow up on the responses regarding the offer to extend.
Any crewmember(s) crew who wishes to extend may call Crew Scheduling to request
initiation of the process provided maximum duty limitation is expected to be exceeded. A
Flight Attendant who voluntarily agrees to work past sixteen (16) hours may be required to
work up to a maximum of twenty (20) hours and shall receive pay as detailed below. Once
the Flight Attendant has agreed to extend up to four (4) hours, such agreement may not be

-- 141 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-3
rescinded.
i. A Flight Attendant who voluntarily agrees to remain on -duty for more than sixteen (16)
hours shall receive pay for the duty period at a rate of two hundred percent (200%)
including premiums and credit at one hundred percent (100%) for the entire duty
period. If the Flight Attendant remains on duty in excess of nineteen (19) hours up to
a maximum of twenty (20) hours, the Flight Attendant shall receive pay at the rate of
three hundred percent (300%) including premiums and credit at one hundred percent
(100%) for the duty period, instead of two hundred percent (200%) including premiums
and credit at one hundred percent (100%). The flight can operate with the FAR-
required minimum crew if some of the crew chooses not to fly.
ii. Once a Flight Attendant agrees has volunteered to exceed the maximum duty
limitations, the Flight Attendant will receive the two hundred percent (200%) pay
specified above, even if the duty limitations are not exceeded. In such circumstances,
the rest provisions contained in Paragraphs H and I, will apply at the end of the
extended duty period.
2. Mid-Range Duty Period
a. An on-duty period containing either one (1) Domestic segment and one (1) IPD segment,
or a one-day turn consisting of two (2) NIPD segments, may be scheduled up to twelve
(12) hours block. A Mid-Range duty period must be scheduled over fourteen (14) duty
hours. A Flight Attendant may be scheduled or rescheduled to remain on-duty up to fifteen
(15) consecutive hours; however, in no case shall a Flight Attendant be required to remain
on-duty in excess of seventeen (17) hours during any such on-duty period. A Flight
Attendant required to remain on-duty for more than sixteen (16) hours in actual operations
shall receive pay for the duty period at a rate of two hundred percent (200%) including
premiums and credit at one hundred percent (100%). If the Flight Attendant operates or
deadheads on a mid-range duty period flight segment that touches 0300 HBT, the Flight
Attendant shall be released for legal rest at the termination of such flight segment.
b. Such flight requiring an operational fuel landing shall be operated using the eighteen (18)
hour on-duty limitation.
3. Long Range Duty Period
a. An on-duty period containing one (1) scheduled International segment up to fourteen (14)
hours and fifteen (15) minutes block, may be scheduled or rescheduled to remain on duty
up to sixteen (16) consecutive hours, however, in no case shall a Flight Attendant be
required to remain on duty in excess of eighteen (18) hours during any such on-duty
period.
b. If the combination of a delayed departure time and scheduled flight time(s) projects the
Flight Attendant’s duty to exceed the maximum duty of eighteen (18) hours, Crew
Scheduling may electronically offer, and the Flight Attendant may voluntarily agree
electronically to continue working. The Company will electronically offer VE to each Flight
Attendant, and each Flight Attendant will respond with an accept or reject. The
Lead/Number 1 Flight Attendant will be the contact to follow up on responses regarding
the offer to extend. Any crewmember(s) who wishes to extend may call Crew Scheduling
to request initiation of the process provided maximum duty limitation is expected to be
exceeded. A Flight Attendant who voluntarily agrees to work past eighteen (18) hours
may be required to work up to a maximum of nineteen (19) hours and shall receive pay
as detailed below. Once the Flight Attendant has agreed to extend up to one (1) hour,
such agreement may not be rescinded.

-- 142 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-4
i. A Flight Attendant who voluntarily agrees to remain on duty for more than eighteen
(18) hours shall receive pay for the duty period at a rate of two hundred percent (200%)
including premiums and credit at one hundred percent (100%) for the entire duty
period. The flight can operate with the FAR-required minimum crew if some of the
crew chooses not to fly.
ii. Once a Flight Attendant agrees to exceed the maximum duty limitations, the Flight
Attendant will receive the two hundred percent (200%) pay specified above, even if the
duty limitations are not exceeded. In such circumstances, the rest provisions contained
in Paragraph H and I, will apply at the end of the extended duty period.
b.c. Such flight requiring an operational fuel landing shall be operated using the eighteen
(18) hour on-duty limitation.
4. Extended Long Range Duty Period
In any on-duty period containing one (1) scheduled International segment of over fourteen
(14) hours and fifteen (15) thirty (30) minutes block, a Flight Attendant may be scheduled to
remain on-duty for a period not to exceed sign-in time, plus the scheduled flight time of the
trip, plus de-brief, with a maximum scheduled on-duty time of twenty (20) hours. In no case
will a Flight Attendant be required to remain on duty in excess of an amount of time equal to
the originally scheduled duty period maximum plus three (3) hours.
A duty period containing International flying will consist of no more than one (1) scheduled
non-stop flight leg. The flight is considered "non-stop" even if a stop is made for operational
reasons.
Example: A duty period containing an extended-long-range International flight leg of sixteen
(16) hours will have:
a. A scheduled on-duty period (including sign-in and de-brief) of seventeen (17) hours and
forty-five (45) minutes;
b. An actual on-duty limit duty-period of seventeen (17) hours and forty-five (45) minutes
plus three (3) hours (includes any operational fuel landing).
5. An electronic method will be provided for processing the voluntary extension of the duty period
contained in Paragraph D.1. and 3.
E. INTERNATIONAL FLYING - REPORT AND RELEASE FROM DUTY
1. IPD Report to Release Period
IPD flights require a report for duty of one (1) hour and fifteen (15) minutes prior to scheduled
departure and continuing until such Flight Attendant is released from duty thirty (30) minutes
after block-in time of the last flight segment, or scheduled arrival, or actual release time,
whichever is later. If the originating flight is a Domestic or NIPD segment, the report time for
duty is reduced to one (1) hour and if the terminating flight is a Domestic or NIPD segment, the
release from duty is fifteen (15) minutes after block-in for Domestic and thirty (30) minutes after
block-in for NIPD.
Example:
Report For Duty Routing Path Release From Duty
1:15 DFW-LGW-DFW :30

-- 143 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-5
1:00 PHL-CLT-LGW-CLT-PHL :15
1:00 ORD-DFW-LGW-CLT-(RON) :30
2. NIPD Report to Release Period
NIPD flights require a report for duty of one (1) hour prior to scheduled departure and
continuing until such Flight Attendant is released from duty thirty (30) minutes after block-in
time of the last flight segment, or scheduled arrival, or actual release time, whichever is later.
If the terminating flight is a Domestic segment, the release from duty is reduced to fifteen (15)
minutes after block-in.
Example:
Report For Duty Routing Path Release From Duty
1:00 DFW-CUN-DFW :30
1:00 PHL-CLT-SJU-CLT-PHL :15
1:00 ORD-DFW-SJO-CLT-(RON) :30
F. INTERNATIONAL ON-BOARD REQUIREMENTS
1. On an a duty period containing an International flight with an originating IPD segment, a Flight
Attendant will be required to be onboard the aircraft ready to receive the passengers at fifty
(50) minutes prior to scheduled departure.
a. The Company may decrease the above time to a minimum of forty-five (45) minutes
provided the Company provides sixty (60) days’ notice to the APFA and Flight Attendants.
b. Once decreased, the Company may subsequently increase the on-board requirement to a
maximum of fifty (50) minutes. The Company must provide sixty (60) days’ notice to the
APFA and Flight Attendants.
2. On an a duty period containing an International flight with an originating NIPD segment, a
Flight Attendant will be required to be onboard the aircraft ready to receive the passengers at
forty-five (45) minutes.
c. The Company may decrease the above time to a minimum of forty (40) minutes provided
the Company provides sixty (60) days’ notice to the APFA and Flight Attendants.
d. Once decreased, the Company may subsequently increase the on-board requirement to a
maximum of forty-five (45) minutes. The Company must provide sixty (60) days’ notice to
the APFA and Flight Attendants.
3. On a Domestic segment, a Flight Attendant will be required to be onboard the aircraft ready
to receive the passengers pursuant to Hours of Service, Section 11.M.
4. The Company will publish and maintain any changes to on-board requirements as specified
above in a location readily accessible to Flight Attendants, such as the monthly bid sheet.
5. On a duty period containing an International flight with an originating Domestic segment, a
Flight Attendant will be required to be onboard the aircraft ready to receive the passengers
pursuant to Hours of Service, Section 11.M.

-- 144 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-6
G. DUTY PERIODS
A duty period containing IPD flying shall be limited to:
IPD flying only; or
IPD flying plus one (1) additional operating or deadheading segment of any type preceding or
following the IPD segment.
H. REST PERIODS AT HOME BASE STATION (Calculated from release from duty to report for duty)
1. A Flight Attendant shall be scheduled for no less than twelve (12) hours rest at their home
crew base immediately following a non-IPD duty period. This twelve (12) hour rest period may
be reduced by the Company two (2) hours in actual operations.
2. A Flight Attendant shall be provided no less than fourteen (14) hours and thirty (30) minutes
rest at their home crew base immediately following an IPD duty period*, except as follows:
a. A Flight Attendant shall be provided no less than thirty-six (36) hour rest at their home
crew base immediately following a trip sequence containing one International segment
with a duration in excess of twelve (12) hours, but not more than fourteen (14) hours and
fifteen (15) minutes.
b. A Flight Attendant shall be provided no less than forty-eight (48) hours at their home crew
base immediately following a trip sequence containing one International segment with a
duration in excess of fourteen (14) hours and fifteen (15) minutes.
*A Fight Attendant shall be provided no less than fourteen (14) hours and thirty (30) minutes
rest at their home crew base immediately following a duty period that includes a segment
to/from Hawaii which exceeds six (6) hours block.
3. A Flight Attendant may, at the Flight Attendant’s option, waive the rest provisions of Section
14 in home base subject to the flight time limitations of the FARs and to Scheduling, Section
10. The rest provided for in Paragraph H.2.b may only be waived to a minimum of twenty-
four (24) hours.
I. LAYOVER REST PERIODS
1. A Flight Attendant on a non-IPD duty period shall be scheduled for no less than ten (10) nine
(9) hours and thirty (30) minutes of rest (calculated from release from duty to report for duty)
while on a layover which, in actual operations, may not be reduced. below eight (8) hours
plus travel time to and from the hotel. In actual operations, the intent of this paragraph is to
require “eight (8) hours “behind the door” minimum rest is required. If the minimum rest of
eight (8) hours "behind the door” cannot be met in the actual operation of a trip sequence, the
crew upon reaching the layover hotel should contact the Company directly to reschedule the
crew.
2. A Flight Attendant on an IPD duty period shall be provided no less than fourteen (14) hours
layover rest (calculated from release from duty to report). A Flight Attendant who reports for
duty and fails to depart the station will be scheduled for no less than ten (10) hours rest. A
Flight Attendant on a duty period which exceeds six (6) hours block with a layover in Hawaii
shall be provided fourteen (14) hours layover, calculated from release to report.
3. If a layover results in less than nine (9) hours rest, the Flight Attendant shall be provided
with FAR 121.467 compensatory rest. Compensatory rest must be at least ten (10)

-- 145 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-7
consecutive hours and must be scheduled to begin no later than twenty-four (24) hours after
the beginning of the reduced rest period. The compensatory rest must occur between the
end of the scheduled duty period and the beginning of the subsequent duty period and may
be on a layover or home base.
4.3. As an exception to the layover rest specified in Section 14, the APFA and the Company may
agree to shorter layover rest to allow certain high value sequences, e.g., DFW-EZE, MIA-
CNF, and JFK-GRU ‘rockets.’
J. FOREIGN CREW BASE
1. Definition
A foreign crew base is a Flight Attendant base located outside of the fifty (50) United States.
All foreign crew bases shall be common crew bases for Flight Attendants and Pilots unless
the Company establishes a cargo-only foreign pilot base that does not operate passenger
revenue flights.
2. Written Notice
The Company will give the APFA at least ninety (90) days written notice of its intent to open
a foreign crew base. Foreign crew base positions will be available for bid and awarded by
system seniority. Flight Attendants awarded and/or assigned to foreign crew bases shall be
covered by all terms of the Agreement and the Railway Labor Act. The Company shall not
claim in any arbitration or court proceeding that the Flight Attendants are not covered by the
Agreement and the Railway Labor Act.
3. Foreign Crew Base Allowance
In the event the Company seeks to establish a foreign crew base, the parties recognize that
the establishment of a foreign crew base raises important issues of housing allowances, tax
protection, cost of living differentials, currency exchange rates and other matters which are
extremely technical. Therefore, in view of the importance of such issues to Flight Attendants
who may consider submitting bids for a foreign crew base, the parties agree:
a. to mutually explore elements to be included in a foreign crew base allowance, taking into
consideration the experience of other Flight Attendant groups;
b. that, if possible, a foreign crew base allowance, to include the agreed elements will be
mutually agreed to prior to the posting of a crew base bid for such foreign crew base. In
the event of failure to agree, the issue will be decided by expedited interest arbitration
pursuant to Dispute Resolution and Grievance Procedures, Section 30;
c. that the foreign crew base allowance, once established, will be retroactive and will be
updated regularly to account for changed conditions.
K. TRAINING
1. A Flight Attendant must be trained for IPD Flying and current in such training to fly IPD trips.
A Flight Attendant must attend required IPD training on the dates such training has been
scheduled. Notwithstanding the above, if a Flight Attendant is unable to attend such training,
such Flight Attendant will be scheduled for different training dates.
2. If the Flight Attendant completes training prior to the start of the bid period, the Flight Attendant
shall be eligible for International premium pay, if applicable, at the start of the bid period.

-- 146 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-8
3. If the Flight Attendant is available to attend training prior to the start of the bid period and the
Flight Attendant has IPD trips scheduled in their line but the Company cannot offer IPD training
and/or training on the Company’s IPD aircraft prior to the start of the bid period, such Flight
Attendant will be eligible for all international premiums, if applicable, for the Domestic flying
the Flight Attendant does after the start of the bid period.
4. If the Flight Attendant is not available to attend training until after the start of the bid period
and the Flight Attendant has IPD trips scheduled in their line, the Flight Attendant may be
required to fly Domestic sequences until awarded/assigned IPD training and/or training on the
Company’s IPD aircraft. Such Flight Attendant shall be eligible for all international premiums,
if applicable, after the earlier of the completion of training or the sixteenth (16th) day after
becoming available to attend training.
5. A Flight Attendant awarded or assigned a position on an IPD sequence(s) via PBS, TTS, or
ETB shall be required to successfully complete the initial IPD service and procedure training
and any required aircraft training. Premiums will be paid as outlined in Paragraph K.3 or K.4.
L. PURSER
The Lead/Number 1 position Flight Attendant shall be designated as the Purser on IPD flights.
1. In addition to regular Flight Attendant duties, a Flight Attendant holding the position of Purser
shall be responsible to Inflight Management to ensure compliance among their crew for
relevant Company policies and procedures during all phases of flight including:
a. Leading and directing in-flight crews in the proper delivery of all scheduled in-flight
services;
b. Communicating and coordinating with appropriate support service departments and Flight
Attendants, e.g., act as a liaison between Premium Services and customers;
c. Attempting to ensure prompt and correct compliance with management's instructions;
d. Conducting pre-flight briefings for all Flight Attendants in the crew at the beginning of each
trip sequence and as necessary thereafter;
e. Coordinating and directing pre-flight and in-flight duties of all Flight Attendants assigned
to the flight, including the reassignment of a crew member's working position as needed
to accomplish a required service;
f. Completing forms, reports and other paperwork as required;
g. Communicating safe work habits to the Flight Attendants assigned to the flight;
h. Immediately reporting hazardous conditions, unsafe practices, and improperly functioning
tools and equipment to the captain and/or management as appropriate;
i. Ensuring customer needs, concerns and requests are met;
j. Actively participating in the resolution of in-flight problems or concerns reported by
customers and/or Flight Attendants; and,
k. The Purser will not issue discipline, conduct uniform checks or perform any duties
normally performed by a supervisor.

-- 147 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-9
2. Filling of Purser Vacancies
In order to provide coverage for flights on which Pursers are required, the Company shall
determine the number of Flight Attendants required to be qualified as Pursers at each base,
as follows:
a. On a yearly basis, operational requirements shall be determined by dividing the projected
number of aircraft hours for the flights on which Pursers are required by the average line
value.
b. The Flight Attendants qualified as Pursers shall include a minimum of one hundred and
fifty percent (150%) above the operational requirements.
c. In addition to the requirements specified in Paragraph L.2.b, the Company agrees to
offer Purser training classes to accommodate a minimum of one hundred (100eighty (80)
Flight Attendants system wide per year. This annual The eighty (80) Flight Attendant
training class requirement is in addition to any base-specifics slots may include Purser
training classes needed to meet vacancies required by the operational requirements
during the year pursuant to Paragraph L.2.a-b above. one hundred and fifty percent
(150%) calculation specified in Paragraph L.2.b.
d. The Purser position will not create a vacancy in a base. To bid into the Purser program a
Flight Attendant must be in the base of the Purser position or transferring into the base,
pursuant to Filling of Vacancies, Section 22, concurrently with the Purser posting.
e. A Flight Attendant awarded a Purser vacancy must remain in the Purser program for a
minimum of six (6) months. A Flight Attendant will remain in the Purser program until they
opt out of the program. A Flight Attendant may resign from the Purser program by
providing a three (3) month advance notice. Such resignation shall become effective if
not rescinded by the Purser during the first thirty (30) days following the written notice.
3. Eligibility and Selection Criteria
To be eligible to bid into the Purser program, a Flight Attendant, including a qualified foreign
language speaker, must meet the following criteria:
a. Have a minimum of eighteen (18) months of active service as a Flight Attendant; and,
b. Be projected to be available for active flight status by the commencement of the training
process; and,
c. Have completed or be willing to complete all required qualification training specific to IPD
flying; and,
d. A Flight Attendant who is on the second stage of discipline will be ineligible to bid into the
Purser program until the second stage of the discipline is removed from their file pursuant
to General, Section 37.O; and,
e. Must successfully complete an objective examination/assessment developed by the
Company and reviewed by the APFA, and may include other objective components, e.g.,
leadership assessment testing.
4. Training and Maintaining Qualifications

-- 148 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-10
a. The Company shall offer Purser qualification training to those individual Flight Attendants
who have been awarded Purser positions pursuant to the provisions for scheduling
training specified in this Agreement. All Purser training shall be conducted in accordance
with Training, Section 29.
b. The Company will design and administer the Purser qualification training and will set the
standards for completion of training with review and input from the APFA. The Company
may, from time to time, revise the training program and standards for completion.
c. Training for Flight Attendants selected for the Purser position will be provided at
reasonable intervals, but not less than once a year.
d. A Flight Attendant who does not successfully complete the Purser qualification training
shall be eligible to bid for Purser qualification training concurrent with the next cycle of
Purser training, provided such training date is no sooner than six (6) months from the
Flight Attendant’s original date of the Purser qualification training.
e. In order to maintain Purser qualifications a Flight Attendant must:
i. As required, successfully complete any required Purser Recurrent training;
ii. Complete any other training associated with a Purser flight assignment successfully;
iii. A Flight Attendant who is on the final stage of discipline prior to termination will be
ineligible to remain in the Purser program until the discipline is removed from their file
pursuant to General, Section 37.O;
iv. Must accumulate at least one hundred and fifty (150) paid Purser hours, exclusive of
vacation and sick pay, each calendar year. A Flight Attendant who fails to achieve this
requirement at no fault of their own (i.e., adequate bidding but insufficient seniority to
hold Purser monthly bid position) will be considered to have met their obligation. A
Purser who does not achieve the participation level will lose their Purser qualification
effective the first day of the contractual month of March. Such Purser will be eligible
to reapply to the program effective one (1) year following the date of disqualification.
f. When more than one (1) Purser qualification or requalification class is being offered in a
year, the classes shall be offered in a minimum of two (2) months.
5. Scheduling
a. Monthly Bid and Award Process
i. The PBS bidding process shall be utilized in the determination of a Purser qualified
Flight Attendant’s bid and award. Such award shall be made on the basis of the Flight
Attendant’s seniority at their base, subject to the following:
(a) The PBS system shall ensure that all Purser flying is awarded or assigned in the
monthly bid process;
(b) Purser flying will be awarded to Purser qualified Flight Attendants who bid for such
sequence(s) in the PBS system on the basis of seniority and the global constraints
of the PBS system. If insufficient Purser qualified Flight Attendants bid for Purser
designated sequences, the PBS system will assign to junior Purser qualified Flight
Attendants on the basis of seniority and the global constraints of the PBS system.

-- 149 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-11
ii. No Purser specific Reserve lines will be awarded.
b. Line Adjustments
i. In the event a Purser designated sequence becomes available after the PBS award,
such sequence shall be posted in open time as a Purser designated sequence
available for pick-up or trade by a Purser qualified Flight Attendant.
ii. Such Purser designated sequence shall remain in Open Time until it has been awarded
to a Purser qualified Flight Attendant through TTS. In the event the sequence is not
awarded through TTS or the Post-TTS Daily process to a Purser qualified Flight
Attendant, such sequence will be processed as a non-Purser. designated sequence
through Post-TTS Daily Processing or Reserve Processing. However, if such
sequence is awarded to a Purser qualified Flight Attendant during this process, the
Flight Attendant shall be entitled to the Purser premium.
iii. Position determination for a Purser designated sequence awarded through Post-TTS
Daily Processing or Reserve Processing, shall be offered as follows:
(a) In the event there are no Purser qualified Flight Attendants on the flight, the Purser
position shall be changed to a Lead/Number 1 Flight Attendant position and filled
in accordance of Scheduling, Section 10; and the Flight Attendant working the
Purser position shall receive Purser pay;
(b) In the event there is one (1) Purser qualified Flight Attendant on the flight, they
shall fill the Purser position;
(c) In the event there are two (2) or more Purser qualified Flight Attendants on the
flight, the Purser position shall be offered first in seniority order and then assigned
in reverse seniority order;
(d) A probationary Flight Attendant shall not be assigned to the Purser position. When
the entire crew of Flight Attendants is probationary Flight Attendants, the most
senior Flight Attendant shall assume the Lead/Number 1 Flight Attendant position.
c. The provisions of TTS, ETB and Sequence Trades through Crew Scheduling as found in
Scheduling, Section 10, shall apply to Purser qualified Flight Attendants except that a
Purser qualified Flight Attendant may not trade a Purser designated sequence for a non-
Purser designated sequence unless the Flight Attendant is trading a Purser designated
sequence with another Purser qualified Flight Attendant. The Flight Attendant may drop
a Purser sequence into open time assuming the transactions meets the TTS processing
rules specified in Scheduling, Section 10.
d. Rescheduling of Flight Attendants shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Scheduling, Section 10.J.
6. Vacations
A Purser qualified Flight Attendant shall be eligible to bid in accordance with their seniority at
their base from the base’s general vacation allocation pool in accordance with the provisions
of Vacation, Section 8.
M. GENERAL
1. Deadheading

-- 150 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-12
a. Flight Attendants on International flights shall deadhead as specified in Deadheading,
Section 16.
b. When a Flight Attendant is deadheading on a flight at the commencement or termination
of an International service, the Company will provide the Flight Attendant a connect time
no less than the minimum connect time required for revenue customers, plus fifteen (15)
minutes.
2. Passports
The Company will reimburse a Flight Attendant for the cost of passport renewal, passport
photos, visas, inoculations and the charge for expediting service for passports and visas in
those crew bases where passports and visas may be required. The Company will provide
positive space travel or reimburse for mileage for a Flight Attendant who drives to a passport
office provided such location is the closest in proximity to the Flight Attendant’s crew base or
residence. The Company shall reimburse any necessary cab fare between an airport or
layover hotel and a passport/visa office. Any other associated expenses will be reviewed on
an individual basis.
3. Duty Free
In the event the duty free commissions are not paid, Flight Attendants shall not be required to
sell duty free items.
4. Medical Care
a. A Flight Attendant who becomes sick or injured on an International trip shall be provided
positive space travel in accordance with Sick Leave, Section 9.F. If necessary, the
Company will provide and pay for layover accommodations until the Flight Attendant is
able to travel. Transportation will be provided between the hotel and the airport. The
terms and conditions of such positive space travel shall be in accordance with Company
policy. The policy regarding travel for ill or injured Flight Attendants shall be no less
favorable than the policy afforded to pilots.
b. A Flight Attendant, covered under American Airlines benefit plans, who requires
emergency medical care while traveling on a sequence or Company business outside of
the United States will receive the same level of coverage as if the care occurred in the
United States. Medical treatment should be obtained in accordance with established
policies and procedures and coordinated through the Flight Attendant’s International
medical coordinator, i.e., BUPA. If the illness or injury is determined to be occupational
in nature, medical treatment should be obtained in accordance with established policies
and procedures and coordinated through the Workers’ Compensation provider. The
medical benefits provider will provide an international toll-free telephone number and such
number shall be listed on the health insurance card. The Flight Attendant shall not be
required to advance payment for the medical treatment except to the extent there are co-
payments, deductibles or co-insurance amounts that may apply. The Company shall
provide such Flight Attendant transportation between the hotel or airport and the
recommended medical facility. Emergency medical transportation, i.e., ambulance, will
be provided in accordance with the Flight Attendant’s applicable medical benefits.
5. Hostilities
Unless prohibited by a governmental agency, the Company shall promptly notify the APFA
National President upon receipt of information regarding hostilities, terror threats, political

-- 151 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
14-13
disruptions or natural disasters that may present a danger to the safety of Flight Attendants at
stations into which they are required to fly. At the request of the APFA National President, the
Company shall meet and review the impact that such hostilities or disruptions may have on
Flight Attendants and notify the affected Flight Attendants.
6. Luggage
If a Flight Attendant checked luggage is lost or damaged while they are on an International
sequence, the Flight Attendant shall be subject to the policy regarding lost luggage applicable
to revenue passengers. An advance of up to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) will
promptly be made available to a Flight Attendant under these circumstances. Such advance
will be converted to the equivalent foreign currency applicable to the location. Should the
Flight Attendant’s luggage be recovered, the Flight Attendant will return such advance funds
less any amounts expended to replace their lost property while such property was lost.
7. Location Delay Incentive
When a Flight Attendant is delayed departing from an IPD station for more than ten (10) hours
from the scheduled departure time for reasons such as mechanical or failure of an inbound
aircraft to arrive, the Flight Attendant shall receive an incentive of an additional five (5) hours
of pay and credit, including all premiums in addition to the value of the trip. Once the delay is
twenty-four (24) hours or greater, an additional five (5) hours, including all premiums, will apply
for each subsequent twenty-four (24) hours or fraction thereof. Once the crew reports for a
delayed departure of twenty-four (24) hours or greater and the flight departs early or the door
closes prior to the twenty-four (24) hours, the five (5) hours will not be rescinded. Should
greater pay protection be provided through Illegal Through No Fault, Last Trip of the Month or
Crew Substitution, the provisions of Paragraph M.7 may be waived to accept the greater pay
protection.

-- 152 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-1
SECTION 15 - FOREIGN LANGUAGE SPEAKER
A. STAFFING
1. The maximum number of required foreign language speaking Flight Attendants (Speakers)
shall be as follows:
Aircraft Type Number of Speakers
Aircraft with <50 BC seats Aircraft with > 50 BC seats
Narrowbody * Up to 1 per flight
Widebody/Dual aisle with <
200 main cabin seats**
Up to 2 per flight Up to 1 in the premium cabin,
Up to 1 in main cabin per class
of service
Widebody with > 200 or >
main cabin seats**
Up to 3 per flight Up to 1 in the per each
premium cabin,
Up to 2 in main cabin
*As an exception, in the event a charter or scheduled segment with group bookings where the
majority of customers have been identified as foreign speaking, the Company may require two (2)
Speakers.
**As an exception, in the event a scheduled segment to/from or within Asia, the Company may
require one (1) additional Speaker.
2. A Purser is not prohibited from serving in a required Speaker position.
3. Required Speakers foreign language qualified Flight Attendants are restricted from serving in
a galley position. The Company may make exceptions to this restriction.
4. On any International trip sequence to more than one (1) destination which contains more than
one (1) destination requiring a language of destination Speaker, at least one (1) language of
destination Speaker may be assigned for each such destination.
5. Based on the unique requirements of a market, the Company may make adjustments to the
allocation of Speakers on a per cabin basis. In no case shall the total number of required
Speakers per flight exceed the maximums specified in Paragraph A.1. The Company will
provide advance notice to the APFA prior to implementing any adjustments.
B. LANGUAGE LOCK-IN
1. A Flight Attendant awarded or assigned to a crew base on the basis of their language
qualification, may be required to remain at such base for a period of six (6) months from the
effective date of assignment or transfer.
2. A Flight Attendant who possesses a foreign language qualification and who is assigned or
proffers to a crew base within one (1) year of date of hire which requires their qualification
may be required to remain at such crew base for a period of one (1) year from the effective
date of assignment or transfer.
3. In the event a Flight Attendant is awarded a mutual transfer, such lock-in will be assumed by
the Flight Attendant to the base requiring the language qualification.
C. LANGUAGE PAY

-- 153 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-2
On a flight where a specific foreign language qualification is required by the Company, all Flight
Attendants who possess such language qualification shall be paid in accordance with
Compensation, Section 3.J.
D. PBS AWARDS
1. Speakers will follow the Reserve rotation specified in Section 12.A except as provided herein.
If the Company determines there are an insufficient number of Speaker Lineholders available
in a language, then Speakers in seniority order who bid off of Reserve will be converted to a
Speaker Lineholder. If an insufficient Speaker Reserves bid to be Lineholders, assignments
will be in inverse order of seniority.
1.2. Each bid period, the Company shall identify the designated Flight Attendant sequences and
number of positions per aircraft cabin to be filled by Speakers in accordance with Paragraph
A. The required language(s) for the designated sequence will be identified in the Speaker
package, PBS system, TTS/UBL, ETB, ROTA and ROTD. ETB.
2.3. Sequences containing Speaker flying will be awarded at the applicable crew base on a
seniority basis utilizing the PBS system as provided in Scheduling, Section 10.D. Such
sequences will be available for bid only at those base(s) designated by the
Company. Speaker sequences and Speaker Reserve lines will be awarded to Speakers in
seniority order in their language. A Speaker may construct a line containing Domestic, IPD
and NIPD sequences in their speaker language(s).
4. In the event there are insufficient Speaker qualified bidders for any trip sequence(s) requiring
Speakers during the monthly bidding process, the Company may assign the junior qualified
Speaker(s) to such trip sequence(s) in inverse order of seniority.
3.5. A Speaker Lineholder may be awarded non-Speaker sequences in their line consistent with
the Flight Attendant’s seniority provided the PBS solution can distribute substantially all
Speaker trips to Speaker Lineholders. in accordance with the recommendations of the JSIC,
and consistent with the PBS system and the recommendations of the vendor.
4.6. During the Speaker-only PBS run, A Speaker Lineholder selecting the High Option in PBS,
will be awarded Speaker sequences above the regular line maximum as established in
Scheduling, Section 10. However, the Flight Attendant, when being processed with non-
Speaker in PBS may select the High Option for non-Speaker sequences.
5.7. Only Speaker Lineholders may be awarded Speaker sequences in PBS. Remaining Speaker
sequences will be distributed pursuant to Paragraph E.
6. Separate Reserve lines for Speaker Reserve coverage may be created utilizing the PBS
system pursuant to Scheduling, Section 10, after Speaker sequences are distributed. The
PBS system may require a minimum number of Speaker Reserves.
7.8. On any trip sequence to more than one (1) destination or a destination which requires more
than one (1) language of destination, at least one (1) Speaker may be assigned for each such
destination.
8.9. A Flight Attendant with multiple language qualifications may be awarded or assigned trip
sequences in any language for which they are qualified up to the maximum number allowed
by the PBS system.

-- 154 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-3
9.10. Speakers Foreign language qualified Flight Attendants awarded sequences above the
maximum complement shall be awarded positions in accordance with the provisions of
Seniority, Section 20.
E. LANGUAGE ASSIGNMENT
1. In the event there are insufficient qualified bidders for any trip sequence requiring foreign
language speaking Flight Attendants during the monthly bidding process, the Company may
assign the junior qualified Flight Attendant to such trip sequence in reverse order of
seniority.
2. In the event there are insufficient qualified lineholders possessing the foreign language
speaking qualification required by the Company, the Company may assign the junior
Reserve(s) at the base possessing the qualification to a bid vacancy in reverse order of
seniority.
3. Foreign language qualified Flight Attendants above the maximum complement shall be
awarded positions in accordance with the provisions of Seniority, Section 20.
F.E. AWARDS ASSIGNMENTS OF SPEAKER SEQUENCES THROUGH TTS, FUTURE
PROCESSING, DAILY PROCESSING AND UBL AND AWARDS/ASSIGNMENTS THROUGH
ROTA AND ROTD RESERVE PROCESSING
1. Awards of Speaker flying through Future and Daily Processing
a. Open Speaker flying will be processed for all Speaker languages before any non-
Speaker open flying is processed.
b. Open Speaker flying will be covered first by a Flight Attendant qualified in the
appropriate Speaker language who has indicated a preference for such trips in
accordance with Scheduling, Section 10.
c. In the event open Speaker flying is not covered by such a Flight Attendant, the
sequences will be offered to the appropriate Speaker qualified Reserve.
d. Only Speaker Lineholders may pick up Speaker sequences from Company time in TTS.
After the final TTS run prior to the sequence, the sequence will be offered to non-
Speaker Flight Attendants only if there are no Speaker Reserves available to take the
sequence.
e. If such sequence still remains uncovered, the sequence will be awarded to the
appropriate non-Speaker Lineholder who has requested the sequence through the
Unsuccessful Bidders List. If the sequence remains uncovered after offering it to the
appropriate non-Speaker Lineholder, the sequence will be assigned to a non-Speaker
Reserve.
2. A Speaker may be bypassed for a non-Speaker flying assignment and retained on her/his
RAP as a result of her/his foreign language qualification or days of reserve availability. Such
override shall be reflected on the Flight Attendant’s monthly activity record and indicated
when the Flight Attendant receives her/his assignment notification with the reason for the
override, e.g., retained for language qualification.
3. will not be used, construed, or interpreted to establish separate seniority lists or permanent
position assignments. A Flight Attendant who has successfully qualified in more than one
(1) Speaker category will have each Speaker identifier likewise placed by her/his name.

-- 155 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-4
G. POST LINE AWARD ADJUSTMENT (ETB, TTS)
1. Adding Sequences with ETB or TTS Pick-up Transactions
A Speaker Lineholder may use TTS or the ETB to add any sequences (Speaker or non-
Speaker) after her/his original line award. A Speaker Reserve may use ETB to add
sequences (Speaker or non-Speaker) on days off.
2. Sequences Trades through ETB
A Speaker may trade her/his sequence with a non-Speaker Flight Attendant provided the
minimum number of Speakers is staffed per Paragraph A.
3.1. TTS Drop/Pick up Transactions (Speaker and Speaker/Purser if applicable)
A Speaker may use TTS to conduct Drop/Pick up transactions as follows:
a. Dropping a Speaker sequence to pick up a Speaker sequence;
b. Dropping a non-Speaker sequence to pick up a non-Speaker or a Speaker sequence;
c. TTS transactions will be processed in accordance with Scheduling, Section 10.E, however
percentage limitations restricting drops will be calculated from Speaker sequence days
for Speaker sequence drops and non-Speaker sequence days for non-Speaker sequence
drops.
4. TTS Drop Transactions
a.d. Sequences dropped using TTS will be processed in accordance with Scheduling, Section
10.E, however, percentage limitations restricting drops will be calculated from Speaker
sequences only.
5. TTS/Unsuccessful Bidders
a.e. If the drop Only Speakers may pick up Speaker sequences from Company time in TTS.
f. A Speaker may use TTS to add any sequences (Speaker or non-Speaker) after their
original line award.
2. UBL, ROTA and ROTD Processing
a. Open Speaker sequences not covered in TTS available, the transaction will be covered
in UBL, ROTA and ROTD by a Flight Attendant as follows:
i. Process as Speaker; or moved to Daily Scheduling. Daily Scheduling will
ii. If no award, process as Speaker only in ROTA or ROTD; or the post-TTS bids pursuant
iii. If no award, process as non-Speaker in UBL; or
iv. If no award, process as non-Speaker in ROTA or ROTD
b. Open Purser/Speaker sequences not covered in TTS will be covered in UBL, ROTA, and
ROTD by a Flight Attendant as follows:

-- 156 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-5
i. Process as Purser/Speaker; or
ii. If no award, process as Purser only; or
iii. If no award, process as Speaker only; or
iv. If no award, process as Speaker only in ROTA or ROTD; or
v. If no award, process as non-Speaker/non-Purser in UBL; or
vi. If no award, process as non-Speaker/non-Purser in ROTA or ROTD
6.3. Speaker requirements will be established daily for RAPS based on language requirements
and days of reserve availability. The number of Speakers required for a RAP will be based
on the projected need to cover speaker positions on that RAP. Scheduling, Section 10.F.
4. A Speaker may be bypassed for a non-Speaker flying assignment as a result of their foreign
language qualification or days of reserve availability until the start of their RAP.
F. POST LINE AWARDS ADJUSTMENT (ETB)
1. A Speaker Lineholder may use TTS or the ETB to add any sequences (Speaker or non-
Speaker) after their original line award. A Speaker Reserve may use ETB to add sequences
(Speaker or non-Speaker) on days off or once released into days off.
2. When using ETB, a Speaker may only trade a Speaker sequence with another Speaker
qualified in the designated language for that sequence. A Speaker may trade their sequence
with a non-Speaker Flight Attendant provided the minimum number of Speakers is staffed in
accordance with Paragraph A.
G. GENERAL
7.1. Charters requiring a Speaker will be bid and awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Charter, Section 18.
8.2. The Company system developed to identify those Flight Attendants who have successfully
qualified for the Speaker program for reference in bid awards and sequence assignments will
not be used, construed, or interpreted to establish separate seniority lists or permanent
position assignments. A Flight Attendant who has successfully qualified in more than one (1)
Speaker category will have each Speaker identifier likewise placed by their name.
H. LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
1. The Company may schedule, no more than once every two (2) years, a language
assessment test for Flight Attendants qualified in designated languages. The purpose of the
assessment will be to determine a Flight Attendant's level of proficiency in her/his
designated language(s). The assessment will be designed by an independent outside
vendor.
2. A language qualified Flight Attendant who passes any language skills assessment test at a
rating of "superior" will be exempt from all further testing.
3.1. A Flight Attendant must receive a minimum language skills’ rating as established by the
Company to retain their foreign language qualification. The Company may schedule a
language assessment test for any Flight Attendant qualified in a foreign language to determine

-- 157 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-6
their level of proficiency in their designated language. The assessment will be designed by
an independent outside vendor.her/his foreign language qualification. A Flight Attendant who
does not achieve and maintain the minimum language skills rating will lose their qualification.
A Flight Attendant who passes the test will not be retested for at least two (2) yearsher/his
qualification.
4. Based on the assessment level achieved, the Flight Attendant will be scheduled for future
language assessment testing every two (2), four (4), or ten (10) years, except as provided in
Paragraph F.2.
5. The Company will maintain language books/tapes, and/or CDs and other study aids for
Flight Attendant use to increase language proficiency. The use of such study aids will be on
the Flight Attendant's own time and shall not be considered training under the terms of this
Agreement.
6.2. If a Flight Attendant fails the Company-approved proficiency test, but achieves a rating one
(1) level below the minimum passing score, they shall be given one (1) opportunity of re-
testing within a sixty (60) day time frame from the original test date at Company expense. If
the Flight Attendant fails the second proficiency test, they may retake the proficiency test at
their own expense.
I. EDUCATION
1. A Flight Attendant will be reimbursed for foreign language courses in accordance with the
Corporate Tuition Reimbursement Program.
2. In the event the Corporate Tuition Reimbursement Program is not available, discontinued or
diminished below the amount in effect on the date of ratification, in lieu of the Corporate Tuition
Reimbursement Program, a Flight Attendant will be eligible for foreign language tuition
reimbursement in an amount up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per year provided the
following requirements are met:
a. Courses must be taken at an accredited educational institute institution or language
learning program any other educational institution approved in advance by the Company.
Berlitz or Rosetta Stone do not need to be approved in advance by the Company.
b. The Flight Attendant must successfully complete the course, pass the language proficiency
test, and be awarded a foreign language speaking position.
J. ADVANCE NOTICE OF LANGUAGE PROFFER
When the Company is aware that additional language speakers are required at a crew base,
every attempt shall be made to post notice of the upcoming language proffers as far in advance as
possible.
K. NEW LANGUAGE
In addition to the language requirement specified in Paragraph B, the Company has the right to
specify a language of destination. On routes requiring a foreign language, the language shall be
determined as the official national language of the country. Whenever the Company requires
Speakers foreign language qualified Flight Attendants on International flights, Flight Attendants will,
on a voluntary basis, be given the opportunity to take a qualifying examination, administered at
Company expense, by an outside language expert(s) as determined by the Company.
L. LANGUAGE RESIGNATION PROFFERS

-- 158 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-7
1. Annual Language Resignation Proffer
The Company will proffer system-wide notice of language resignations on September 1st of
each year. The deadline to proffer a language resignation will be September 30th, with
resignations effective with the November contractual month. The Company will establish the
number of language qualified Flight Attendants who will be permitted to resign a language
qualification according to operational needs, however, the number will be between two and
one-half percent (2.5%) and five percent (5%) of the qualified Flight Attendants in each
language at each base. Additionally, a Flight Attendant desiring to resign a language must
have seven (7) ten (10) or more years of occupational seniority and may not be serving a
language lock-in. Language resignation proffer awards will be made in seniority order, by
base, from among those proffering Flight Attendants with seven (7) ten (10) or more years
occupational seniority and who are not serving a language lock-in. The Company may restrict
Flight Attendants from dropping their foreign language qualification(s) by specific language
qualification if any of the following apply:
a. No Flight Attendants qualified in such language have been hired in the twelve (12) months
preceding the month in which the Language Drop Proffer would occur; or
b. The Company can demonstrate on-going unfilled vacancies in such language.
2. Standing Language Resignation Proffer
A standing language resignation list will be established by the Company and will be updated
by those Flight Attendants desiring to resign a specific language qualification. The placement
by a Flight Attendant of their name on a standing resignation list in no way alters the minimum
requirements (e.g., minimum seniority, lock-in status) necessary to be awarded a language
resignation.
3. Additional Language Resignation Proffers
The Company may, at its option, proffer additional language resignations, from time to time,
at specific bases. These additional proffers will be posted for a minimum of twenty-one (21)
days, with resignations effective with the contractual month following the proffer awards. The
Company will establish the number of language qualified Flight Attendants who will be
permitted to resign a specific language qualification at a specific base according to operational
needs. Language resignation proffer awards will be made in seniority order from among those
proffering Flight Attendants with seven (7) ten (10) or more years of occupational seniority
and who are not serving a language lock-in.
M.A. HAITIAN-CREOLE SPEAKING FLIGHT ATTENDANTS
1. If the Company elects to require Haitian-Creole speaking Flight Attendants on flights to and
from Haiti, the Company will proffer to any qualified French-speaking Flight Attendant(s) the
opportunity to be trained in the Haitian-Creole language. The examination to determine if a
Flight Attendant is a qualified French language will be administered at Company expense by
an outside language expert(s) determined by the Company in accordance with Paragraph I.
2. If insufficient qualified French-speaking Flight Attendant(s) accept the training or do not
qualify in speaking the Haitian-Creole language, upon completion of training, the Company
may hire new employees with the required language qualification. The Company reserves
the right to select the appropriate language training school that will determine if the Flight
Attendant(s) are qualified at the end of training.

-- 159 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
15-8
N.M. PROVISIONS IN CONFLICT
In the application of Section 15, other provisions of this Agreement in conflict, or to the contrary,
shall not apply, with the exception of Appendix S, The Foreign National Agreement, which shall
control when the provisions of Appendix S are in conflict with the provisions of Section 15.

-- 160 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
16-1
SECTION 16 - DEADHEADING
A. A Flight Attendant required by the Company to deadhead shall receive full pay and credit based on
scheduled block time or actual flight time, whichever is greater. Additionally, all premiums will apply
to the deadhead.
B. A deadheading Flight Attendant shall be entitled to Per Diem as set forth in Expenses, Section 4.
C. A deadheading Flight Attendant will be provided positive space authorization for both scheduled
and unscheduled deadheads.
1. When a Flight Attendant is on an unscheduled deadhead for the purpose of covering a flying
assignment, the Flight Attendant will be booked on the next scheduled flight on American
Airlines or on a carrier whose inventory is controlled by the Company.
2. As an exception, if a Flight Attendant is on an unscheduled deadhead and returning on their
last leg of the sequence, the Flight Attendant will be booked on the next scheduled flight for
which seats are available on either American Airlines or on a carrier whose inventory is
controlled by the Company. The terms and conditions of such positive space travel shall be
in accordance with Company policy. The policy regarding travel for ill or injured Flight
Attendants shall be no less favorable than the policy afforded to pilots.
D. In the event off-line air transportation is used for deadheading, a deadheading Flight Attendant
shall be paid and credited in accordance with Paragraph A. Flight Attendants will be required to
deadhead only on FAR Part 121 certificated scheduled air carriers.
E. A deadheading Flight Attendant must be in uniform or wear the normal non-revenue attire
applicable to the class of service, except the Flight Attendant may not wear shorts, undershirts, or
t-shirts with slogans.
F. INTERNATIONAL DEADHEAD
A Flight Attendant required to take a scheduled or unscheduled deadhead on an International flight
will be provided a seat in the coach/economy section of the aircraft, unless upgraded to
First/Business class in accordance with Paragraph J.5.
G. DEADHEAD TO FIRST LIVE LEG OF A TRIP SEQUENCE
A Lineholder who is scheduled to deadhead on the first leg of a sequence may elect to be released
from such deadhead and join the trip sequence at the first live leg. A Flight Attendant electing this
option shall:
1. Notify Crew Scheduling at least two (2) hours prior to scheduled departure of the deadhead;
2. Notify Crew Scheduling by telephone until such time as electronic means are available, upon
arrival at the downline station;
3. A Flight Attendant choosing to waive a deadhead to a layover city must advise the Crew Hotel
Desk as soon as possible if the Flight Attendant needs the hotel room that was secured for
them;
4. If the scheduled deadhead is to a layover city, then the Flight Attendant is also responsible for
their own transportation to the layover hotel. The Flight Attendant will also be responsible for
any additional hotel charges due to an early hotel arrival;

-- 161 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
16-2
5. Be ready to receive passengers on the first live leg according to the provisions of Hours of
Service, Section 11.M;
6. Be paid and credited for the deadhead as if the Flight Attendant had flown the original
scheduled deadhead;
7. Be paid Per Diem and duty rig as if the Flight Attendant had flown the original scheduled
deadhead; and,
8. Contact Crew Scheduling as soon as possible when encountering any unanticipated delays
which would affect the Flight Attendant’s arrival at the downline station.
9. A Reserve who has been released consistent with the parameters of Reserve Duty, Section
12, may utilize the provisions of Paragraph G.
10. The provisions of Paragraph G will also be made available to commuters if the actual flying
portion of the trip sequence begins in the Commuter’s Designated City, including SJU.
11. The provisions of Paragraph G will also be made available to commuters if the actual flying
portion of the trip sequence begins at a station other than the Commuter’s Designated City
(as indicated in SABRE). The commuter will be provided with positive space travel under the
same pass classification as the originally scheduled deadhead to the station where the actual
flying portion of the trip sequence commences.
12. A Flight Attendant at a co-terminal with a deadhead leg(s) at sequence origination may request
to have the deadhead originate at a different co-terminal. Such Flight Attendant should
contact Crew Scheduling as soon as possible to make such a request. If the
award/assignment was given through ROTA, the Reserve should contact Crew Scheduling
no later than 2230 HBT on the day conclusion of assignment, except as provided the reserve
call in Section 12.J.4. window if the assignment was given prior to the end of the call in window.
If the award/assignment was given through ROTD, after the conclusion of the call in window,
the Reserve should make their request at the time of the award/assignment. Crew Scheduling
approval of Reserve requests will not be unreasonably withheld. Legalities and pay will be
based on the originally scheduled deadhead.
13. A Flight Attendant who chooses to waive the deadhead to a layover city is also considered to
have waived any required legal rest for that layover city.
14. Once Crew Scheduling has approved a waiver of deadhead on a particular trip sequence(s),
the Flight Attendant may not subsequently trade or drop that trip sequence(s).
15. The provisions of Paragraph G.11 and G.12 will not apply if the scheduled deadhead is on
offline air transportation (e.g., new service or seasonal start up). A sequence with scheduled
offline air transportation may not be traded in ETB or TTS/UBL within forty-eight (48) hours
prior to sequence report.
15.16. The provisions of Paragraph G will not apply to probationary Flight Attendants.
17. If a Flight Attendant who takes an alternate deadhead, as provided by the Company, from
their commuter city or co-terminal is unable to be positioned for the first live leg due to a
cancellation or delay, at the Flight Attendant’s option, they will be split on to their original
sequence or other offered flying unless Crew Scheduling determines it is impracticable to do
so. If split on to the sequence or the offer of other flying is accepted, the Flight Attendant will
be pay protected in accordance with 10.J.10. If the Flight Attendant is not split on to the original

-- 162 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
16-3
sequence or other flying, they will not be pay protected but will be able to pick up flying as
provided for in Section 10 of this Agreement.
H. DEADHEAD TO CREW BASE OR COMMUTER CITY ON LAST LEG OF A TRIP SEQUENCE
A Lineholder scheduled to deadhead on the last live leg of their trip sequence may choose not to
take the deadhead. The Lineholder shall notify Crew Scheduling of their election to not take the
deadhead following their last live leg debrief period but may book an alternative deadhead in
accordance with the times established in Paragraph H.4. below. The notification of the choice not
to take the deadhead will be by telephone until such times as an electronic means are available.
prior to the scheduled deadhead.
1. With Crew Scheduling’s consent, a Reserve scheduled to deadhead on the last live leg of
their sequence may choose not to take the scheduled deadhead, provided that is the Flight
Attendant is available for their subsequent Reserve assignment.
2. A Flight Attendant who elects not to take a scheduled deadhead will be paid and credited for
the originally scheduled deadhead portion as if the Flight Attendant had flown the deadhead.
Per Diem and duty rig will be paid as if the Flight Attendant had flown the deadhead.
3. Legalities will continue to be based on the scheduled deadhead and a Flight Attendant shall
not be required to request a duty limitation waiver to take an alternate deadhead. However, at
their option a A commuter Flight Attendant who takes an earlier deadhead home to their
notifies Crew Schedule of her/his election under Paragraph H may also request to deadhead
to her/his commuter city (as indicated in SABRE) in lieu of her/his crew base or co-terminal
may contact Crew Scheduling after completion of the actual deadhead to have their legal at-
home rest commence according to the actual deadhead flight(s). The Flight Attendant will
become legal and. If granted, the commuter will be provided with positive space travel on the
next available to pick up trips based on the conclusion of the new rest period following the
earlier deadhead.
3.4. In addition to the applicable notification requirements in Paragraph H, a Flight Attendant may
elect an alternative deadheadflight on either American Airlines or on a carrier whose inventory
is controlled by the Company in accordance with the following:
a. Return to a Different Co-Terminal: If A Flight Attendant elects who would like to change
their terminating deadhead segment to a different co-terminal airport, the Flight Attendant
may self-book after the sign-in of the sequence and up to sixty (60) minutes prior to
departure of the requested deadhead. The requested deadhead may be on the same day
as the last live leg and up to and including the day of the should contact Crew Schedule
to make such a request at the conclusion of the last working segment. Legalities and pay
will be based on the originally scheduled deadhead. The Flight Attendant will be provided
the requested deadhead at the same priority as the original deadhead. A Flight Attendant
who voluntarily requests to change the co-terminal of origination or termination will not be
entitled to transportation; however, local agreements regarding transportation may apply.
b. Return to Crew Base (earlier deadhead on same day as original deadhead): If a Flight
Attendant elects to return on an earlier deadhead to their crew base on the same day as
the original deadhead, the Flight Attendant may stand by for the flight at their original
deadhead priority. Alternatively, on the same day as the last live leg and up to sixty (60)
minutes prior to departure of the requested deadhead, a Flight Attendant may elect to
self-book an earlier deadhead. The Flight Attendant will be provided positive space travel
in accordance with the Company Business Travel Policy on the same day as the last live
leg on a flight(s) for which Company business travel seats are available.

-- 163 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
16-4
c. Return to Crew Base (when scheduled to layover prior to deadhead-only duty
period): If a Flight Attendant is scheduled to layover prior to a scheduled deadhead-only
duty period, they may self-book an earlier deadhead after the sign-in of the sequence and
up to sixty (60) minutes prior to departure of the requested deadhead. The requested
deadhead may be on the same day as the last live leg and up to and including the day of
the originally scheduled deadhead. If seats are available at the time of the request, the
Flight Attendant will be confirmed for the requested deadhead. If seats are not available,
the Flight Attendant may stand by for the flight at their original deadhead priority.
d. Return to Commuter City (on or before the same day as original deadhead): If a
Flight Attendant elects to return to their commuter city on a flight other than their originally
scheduled deadhead, the Flight Attendant may self-book after the sign-in of the sequence
and up to sixty (60) minutes prior to departure of the requested flight. The Flight Attendant
will be provided positive space travel in accordance with the Company Business Travel
Policy on the same day of the last live leg and up to and including the day of the originally
scheduled deadhead.
Positive space travel will be limited to one (1) segment within the forty-eight (48)
contiguious fifty (50) United States and Puerto Rico unless the trip sequence includes more
than one (1) deadhead segment at termination. In no case will the positive space travel
exceed the number of segments returning to base. For International flights, positive space
travel will be limited to one (1) leg back to the contiguous forty-eight (48) fifty (50) United
States and Puerto Rico.
4.5. A Flight Attendant scheduled to work the last segment of their trip sequence may trade with a
Flight Attendant scheduled to deadhead on such flight, provided the Flight Attendants notify
Crew Scheduling, and the flight will not take a delay to accomplish such change. Each Flight
Attendant accepting the trade must be legal to accept such flight assignment. The Flight
Attendant who was originally scheduled to work the flight will be paid as if they had worked
such flight. If the Flight Attendant who is now scheduled to deadhead the last segment of their
trip sequence elects to not take the scheduled deadhead, they will be paid in accordance with
H.2.
5.6. A Flight Attendant who elects to take an on-line flight other than those alternative deadheads
provided for in H.4, above (e.g. other locations or different days) her/his scheduled deadhead
flight under a confirmed booking code shall travel on a space-available basis. The boarding
priority for a Flight Attendant traveling on this space-available basis shall be in accordance
with Company policy.
I. SURFACE TRANSPORTATION
1. Except as provided in Paragraph I.2, a Flight Attendant required by the Company to surface
deadhead between airports shall receive pay and credit for travel time in accordance with
Paragraph A, which shall be determined by dividing the American Automobile Association
miles between the applicable airports by forty (40). A Flight Attendant may request additional
pay in cases of extraordinary delays during surface deadheads by submitting a pay exception
form. However, in no instance will a Flight Attendant be credited with less time than a pilot for
the same airport combination. Surface deadhead means:
a. Company required ground transportation of a Flight Attendant between two (2) airports
without an intervening layover;
b. Company required ground transportation of a Flight Attendant between a hotel and an
airport that is more than fifty (50) American Automobile Association miles apart; or

-- 164 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
16-5
c. Company required ground transportation of a Flight Attendant between a hotel and an
airport when the Flight Attendant flies into one airport and out of another.
2. A Flight Attendant required by the Company to surface deadhead between airports which are
included in the Ground Transportation Chart below shall be paid and credited as provided in
the chart and such times shall be used for purposes of duty time calculations. The Company
shall meet and confer with the APFA regarding the applicable flight time credit for travel
between airports in the same metropolitan area which are not included in the Chart. If the
parties are unable to agree to the pay and credit, the matter shall be submitted to Expedited
Arbitration pursuant to the System Board of Adjustment, Section 31, for a determination. The
arbitrator’s award shall govern any travel being grieved and all future instances of travel
between the two (2) airports. However, in no instance will Flight Attendants be credited with
less time than pilots for the same airport combination.
City Pairs Duty Time City Pairs Duty Time
LGA-JFK 1:30 ONT-LGB 2:00
LGA-EWR 1:30 SNA-LGB 1:00
JFK-EWR 2:00 DCA-BWI 1:15
MDW-ORD 2:00 DCA-IAD 1:15
LAX-LGB 1:00 IAD-BWI 1:45
LAX-BUR 1:15 SFO-OAK 1:00
LAX-ONT 2:15 SJC-OAK 2:00
LAX-SNA 2:00 SFO-SJC 1:00
BUR-SNA 2:15 DFW-DAL 1:00
BUR-LGB 1:30 MIA-FLL 1:45
ONT-BUR 2:00 TPA-PIE 1:00
ONT-SNA 1:15 FLL-PBI 1:00
MIA-PBI 2:00 SEA-BFI :45
3. For the purpose of scheduling release, report and connection times, a surface deadhead will
be treated as if it were a flight deadhead, including the normal report and release times
applicable to the flight deadhead. A Flight Attendant may call Crew Tracking to revise their
release time if the actual release exceeds the scheduled release time. Such additional time
shall be used to adjust the Flight Attendant’s rest and in calculating their trip and duty rigs.
4. All premiums and Per Diem will apply to surface transportation.
5. A Flight Attendant will not be required to drive a vehicle when surface deadheading. Only
when alternate transportation is not available will a Flight Attendant be required to surface
deadhead with passengers.
J. BOARDING PASSES AND SEAT ASSIGNMENTS
1. A deadheading Flight Attendant unable to obtain a boarding pass through self-service options
may request a boarding pass at the gate.
2. At the time trip sequences are published, the Company shall book all scheduled deadheads
in aisle and window seats, if available. However, in no case will such seat assignments be in
non-reclining seats unless no other seats are available at the time of booking. Paragraph J is
not intended to displace a passenger already holding a seat assignment when the scheduled
deadhead seats are booked. The provisions of Paragraph J shall only apply to flights on which
the Company provides advance seat assignments for passengers or deadheading flight crew
members.

-- 165 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
16-6
3. For deadheads that are not scheduled in advance, at the time of departure every effort shall
be made to seat deadheading Flight Attendants in window and aisle seats, with reclining seats.
This Paragraph is not intended to displace a passenger already holding a seat assignment or
to preclude an agent from assigning a seat to a revenue passenger(s) prior to the arrival of a
deadheading Flight Attendant to the gate.
4. A deadheading Flight Attendant may pre-board the aircraft provided the minimum number of
Flight Attendants for the working crew is on board or board immediately if boarding has
commenced. Prior to pre-boarding, a deadheading Flight Attendant shall leave her/his
boarding pass with the gate agent. In the event overhead bins are full, a deadheading Flight
Attendant in or out of uniform shall have their bag(s) valet checked. The bags shall be off
loaded before checked baggage and brought to the aircraft door upon arrival.
A commuting Flight Attendant in or out of uniform occupying the jumpseat shall secure their
luggage in an available overhead bin(s). If the luggage cannot be accommodated in the
overhead bin(s), the Flight Attendant may valet check their crew luggage at the gate.
5. A deadheading Flight Attendant attired either in uniform or in accordance with the dress code
required for First or Business Class non-revenue employee travel shall be eligible for upgrade
from coach on a space-available basis in accordance with Company policy. In no case shall
Flight Attendants requesting an upgrade have a less favorable boarding priority than other
flight crew members.
K. A Flight Attendant who becomes sick or injured on a trip and is unable to complete their trip will be
provided positive space transportation to the Flight Attendant’s crew base or residence on the next
available flight on American Airlines or on a carrier whose inventory is controlled by the Company.
At the request of the Company, a Flight Attendant may be required to obtain a medical release to
travel, at the Company’s expense, prior to returning to their crew base or residence. If the Flight
Attendant is unable to fly, appropriate alternate ground transportation will be provided by the
Company. The terms and conditions of such positive space travel shall be in accordance with
Company policy. The policy regarding travel for ill or injured Flight Attendants shall be no less
favorable than the policy afforded to pilots.
L. After report and prior to release of the last working leg of the sequence, To avoid a delay or
cancellation, a deadheading Flight Attendant may be rescheduled required to work the flight,
instead of deadheading, if the Flight Attendant scheduled to work the flight is unavailable. If the
deadheading Flight Attendant and there is required to work the flight instead of deadheading, the
Flight Attendant will be provided the protections of inadequate time to utilize the order of
assignment procedures specified in Reserve Duty, Section 10.J.10, for the sequence. The
opportunity to be rescheduled 12. Any such assignment shall be offered to the in inverse order of
seniority among all deadheading Flight Attendants in seniority order. If insufficient Flight Attendants
volunteer to be rescheduled, assignments will be made in inverse seniority. on the segment unless
a more senior Flight Attendant volunteers.
M. If Flight Attendants experience repeated difficulties associated with deadheading or surface
transportation, the APFA may notify the Vice President of Inflight, or a designee, of the APFA’s
desire to convene an ad hoc Deadheading Committee comprised of Company and APFA
representatives to investigate the perceived difficulties and report back to the Company and the
APFA on the Committee’s findings and recommendations, if any.
N. REQUEST TO DEADHEAD AND EXCEED ON-DUTY LIMITATION (INCORPORATED INTO
H.3.)
Where a Flight Attendant flies from A to B, and due to the on-duty limitation must be scheduled to
lay over and then deadhead from B to A, such Flight Attendant may request that she/he be

-- 166 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
16-7
permitted to deadhead home in the first duty period, and the Company may, if it chooses, permit
her/him; provided however, that the departure time of such deadhead is within the actual on-duty
limitation. However, she/he shall be paid and credited for the scheduled second duty period in
lieu of the extension of the first duty period.
1. A Flight Attendant electing to waive her/his on-duty limitation to deadhead home early may,
at her/his option, waive the legal at-home rest following the originally scheduled deadhead
flight(s) and be scheduled instead for legal at-home rest according to the actual deadhead
flight(s). If, by such a waiver, a Flight Attendant becomes legal and available for a sequence
from which she/he had been removed due to an illegality related to the original deadhead
flight(s), e.g., legal break, Crew Schedule will, at Flight Attendant request, restore said
sequence to the Flight Attendant activity record, if such requested sequence is still available.
2.1. In no instance will a Flight Attendant receive less than the applicable minimum legal at-home
rest following her/his sequence as actually flown, including deadheading.

-- 167 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
17-1
SECTION 17 - CO-TERMINALS
A. CO-TERMINALS. "Co-terminals" as used in this Agreement shall mean:
1. Kennedy/Newark/La Guardia
2. O’Hare/Midway
3. Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport/ Love Field
4. Los Angeles/Ontario/Burbank/Long Beach/Orange County
5. San Francisco/Oakland/San Jose
6. Washington National/Dulles International/Baltimore-Washington International
7. Miami/Ft. Lauderdale/West Palm Beach
8. Tampa/St. Petersburg
*Ground transportation, if requested, will be provided from/to LAX for any operation involving
sequences originating and terminating at the prescribed co-terminals.
"Co-terminals" shall mean two (2) or more airports serving the same metropolitan area. The
Company will meet and confer with the APFA before adding a new co-terminal.
B. When a Flight Attendant is scheduled out of one (1) airport and into another airport serving the
aforementioned co-terminal, such Flight Attendant will be paid and credited as specified below:
1. Co-Terminal Sequence Chart
Co-Terminal Sequence Time Co-Terminal Sequence Time
LGA-JFK 1:30 ONT-LGB 2:00
LGA-EWR 1:30 SNA-LGB 1:00
JFK-EWR 2:00 DCA-BWI 1:15
MDW-ORD 2:00 DCA-IAD 1:15
LAX-LGB 1:00 IAD-BWI 1:45
LAX-BUR 1:15 SFO-OAK 1:00
LAX-ONT 2:15 SJC-OAK 2:00
LAX-SNA 2:00 SFO-SJC 1:00
BUR-SNA 2:15 DFW-DAL 1:00
BUR-LGB 1:30 MIA-FLL 1:45
ONT-BUR 2:00 TPA-PIE* 1:00
ONT-SNA 1:15 FLL-PBI 1:00
MIA-PBI 2:00 SEA-BFI :45
*TPA-PIE is not currently an eligible co-terminal sequence because Flight Attendants are not based
in either location.
2. Future Co-Terminal Sequences. The Company and the APFA will meet as necessary to agree
on any other co-terminal sequences and corresponding times.
C. For the purpose of scheduling release, report and connection times, a surface deadhead will be
treated as if it were a flight deadhead, including the normal report and release times applicable to
the flight deadhead. A Flight Attendant may call Crew Tracking to revise their release time if the
actual release exceeds the scheduled release time. Such additional time shall be used to adjust
the Flight Attendant’s rest and in calculating their trip and duty rigs. If pilots are provided greater
pay and credit for transportation between co-terminals, such provisions will be extended to Flight
Attendants.

-- 168 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
17-2
D. All premiums and Per Diem will apply to such surface transportation.
E. In the event that transportation is not available within the limits described in Paragraph F, and it is
anticipated that such transportation will not be available to depart for a period in excess of four (4)
hours, lodging shall be provided in accordance with Crew Accommodations, Section 6, and will
continue until such transportation is available.
F. A Flight Attendant whose trip originates at one (1) airport and terminates at another airport at the
Flight Attendant’s co-terminal shall be furnished transportation one (1) way between one (1) airport
and the other, at the Flight Attendant’s option (“reversing the limo”). When transportation is not
provided by the Company within thirty (30) minutes and such transportation does not leave within
forty-five (45) minutes after the Flight Attendant arrives at the airport and reports to the limousine
pick up area, such Flight Attendant may use any other available means of ground transportation
between one (1) airport and the other and may claim reimbursement for expenses for such
transportation on the regular Company expense account form and shall be reimbursed.
G. In the event that a crew base within a co-terminal becomes a separate and independent crew
base, as defined in Definitions, Section 2, Section 17 shall cease to be in effect for the affected
crew base.
H. The Company shall provide paid employee parking in accordance with Expenses, Section 4, or
reasonable reimbursement for parking at each airport in the co-terminal location.

-- 169 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
18-1
SECTION 18 - CHARTERS
A. Charters known before the completion of sequence construction will be built into sequences at a
crew base in accordance with Hours of Service, Section 11, and will be governed by the rules
applicable to sequences at a crew base. Such charter shall be known as a “Base Charter.” All
Base Charters shall be identified as a charter in the bid package and open time.
B. Charters not built into sequences at the time of line construction shall be designated as open time
flying within a crew base.
C. As an exception to Paragraphs A and B, when a Charter client requests a specific Flight Attendant
crew, the Company will attempt to honor such request. Such exceptions shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of all charters. and the Company will adhere to the “No Discrimination” provision of
General, Section 37.A. Contractual language set forth in Hours of Service, Section 11, may be
modified subject to Charter requirements, but in no case will the Company exceed the FARs.
D. The Company will adhere to the “No Discrimination” provision of General, Section 37.A.
E. As an exception to Section 11.M.-N. and Section 14.E.-F, when a charter is not boarding from an
airport terminal gate, report time will be two (2) hours prior to scheduled departure and Flight
Attendants will be provided one hour and fifteen minutes (1:15) of additional flight pay and credit.
On such flights, Flight Attendants will be required to be on board the aircraft ready to receive
passengers one hour and fifteen minutes (1:15) prior to scheduled departure.

-- 170 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-1
SECTION 19 - CIVIL RESERVE AIR FLEET (CRAF)
A. The term CRAF means all flight operations conducted in support of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet
(CRAF) program during activation in accordance with agreements between the Company and the
Department of Defense covering operations of Company aircraft, including all deadhead and ferry
flights relating to such operation. All applicable provisions of this Agreement and any related Side
Letters included in this Agreement shall apply to CRAF flying except as specifically modified in this
Section. In the event other flight crew members receive additional compensation for non-CRAF
military charters, the provisions of Paragraph B.1 shall apply.
B. COMPENSATION/EXPENSES
1. In addition to International pay as provided in Compensation, Section 3, where applicable,
Flight Attendants engaged in the CRAF operation shall receive an additional override of five
dollars ($5.00) for each hour while participating in CRAF activation. the aero medical CRAF
operation, or three dollars ($3.00) per hour while participating in CRAF troop movements.
2. As an exception to the minimum guarantee provided in Compensation, Section 3, each Flight
Attendant who holds a Regular or Reserve CRAF line pursuant to Paragraph F.1 shall receive
a minimum guarantee of eighty (80) hours pay for each month. A Flight Attendant who
voluntarily gives up a sequence(s) to reduce her/his line below eighty (80) hours will have
her/his guarantee reduced accordingly.
3.2. If a CRAF sequence is rescheduled, a Flight Attendant shall receive the greater of the
scheduled or actual pay and credit for the sequence.
4.3. If required to remain on duty with CRAF passengers at originating, intermediate and
terminating stations, Flight Attendants will be paid twelve dollars ($12.00) per hour or fraction
thereof when participating in the CRAF activation aero medical operation, or ten dollars
($10.00) per hour or fraction thereof while participating in CRAF troop movements for all time
in excess of thirty (30) minutes before departure and thirty (30) minutes after arrival.
Example 1
At an originating station, a Flight Attendant is required to remain on duty while troops begin
boarding at 0700 until the flight departs at 0735. The Flight Attendant is entitled to twelve ten
dollars ($12.00 10.00).
Example 2
At an originating station, a Flight Attendant is required to remain on duty while troops begin
boarding at 0900 until the flight departs at 1001. The Flight Attendant is entitled to twenty-
four dollars ($24.00 20.00).
Example 3
A CRAF flight from CLT makes an intermediate stop in CDG. A Flight Attendant is required
to remain on duty with the CRAF passengers from 1000 until the aircraft depart at 1029. The
Flight Attendant is not entitled to additional pay. If the same flight would have departed at
1031, the Flight Attendant would be entitled to twelve ten dollars ($12.00 10.00).
5.4. In addition to the International or Domestic Per Diem as provided in Expenses, Section 4.A,
Flight Attendants will be provided an override of twenty-five ($0.25) cents per hour for all hours
while serving in the CRAF Operation. In the event the Company increases the override
provided to Pilots, such increased override will be extended to Flight Attendants.

-- 171 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-2
C. STAFFING
All CRAF operations shall be staffed in accordance with the chart below. Should the Company
contract to provide CRAF services utilizing aircraft other than aircraft specified below, the Company
and the APFA will meet and discuss the appropriate crew complements and crew rest seats for
such services. In no event shall staffing be less than five (5) Flight Attendants for Aeromedical
CRAF service. Any foreign language speaker Flight Attendant shall be in addition to the staffing
specified in the chart below. Additional staffing may be utilized as determined by the Company.
Aircraft
Type *
Duty Period
Scheduled
up to 14
hours
Duty Period
Scheduled
over 14
hours but
less than or
equal to 16
18 hours
Duty Period
Scheduled
over 16 18
hours but
less than or
equal to 18
20 hours
Duty Period
Scheduled
over 18
hours but
less than or
equal to 20
hours*
B757/767
Troop
Movement
6 7 9 10
B777-200
A330
Troop
Movement
10 9 11 10 12 12 13
B777-300
200 Troop
Movement
12 10 13 11 13 14
B787-8 10 11 11 11
B787-9 10 11 11 11
*Eligible aircraft type subject to change based on government contracts.
*If a Flight Attendant is scheduled to work all flights in a duty period scheduled over twenty (20)
hours, i.e., no deadheads or ferry flights, the Company may reduce check-in time on the sequence
in order to reduce the duty period to under scheduled twenty (20) hours. If the Company does so,
the Flight Attendant will be paid as if she/he checked in at normal check-in times.
D. CRAF PREFERENCE LIST
1. In anticipation of the emergency nature of the CRAF operation, the Company shall keep on
file a currently effective CRAF Preference List which shall include, in order of system seniority,
all Flight Attendants desiring to fly the CRAF operation. This list shall be available for
repreferencing within sixty (60) days of Date of Ratification of this Agreement, and this list
shall be kept up-to-date by repreferencing on September 1st of every succeeding year. Any
Flight Attendant on the System Seniority List who requests to be added during repreferencing
will be added to the CRAF Preference List. A Flight Attendant will stay on the CRAF
Preference List until they request removal of their name from the CRAF Preference List at any
time by giving thirty (30) days written notification.
2. Vacancies will be filled in accordance with the following:

-- 172 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-3
a. In the event there are insufficient volunteers, the Company will repost the CRAF
vacancies;
b. If there are still insufficient volunteers, the Company will assign those supervisors,
available training instructors and other management personnel to the CRAF Preference
List, who are qualified and current and whose names appear on the Flight Attendant
System Seniority List;
c. If there are still insufficient volunteers, the Company and the APFA will meet and discuss
how to resolve the issue. If the parties are unable to resolve this issue, the parties agree
to submit the issue to arbitration pursuant to System Board of Adjustment, Section 31, for
final and binding resolution by a neutral. The award must contain some procedure for
filling the unfilled vacancies. This resolution will be applied to all future instances of
insufficient bidders. If the arbitration award has not been issued or the award cannot
reasonably be implemented prior to CRAF activation, the Company may fill vacancies by
assignment in reverse seniority order until such time as the award becomes effective;
d. The minimum number of sufficient volunteers on the CRAF Preference List will be
determined by multiplying the total number of aircraft subject to CRAF activation, times
the Flight Attendant crew complement as specified in Paragraph C, for such aircraft while
in CRAF service, times the number of crews per aircraft as specified in the agreement
between the Company and the Air Mobility Command;
e. In the event there are sufficient volunteers later in the operation, the Company
supervisors, training instructors and management personnel serving in the CRAF
operation will be removed from the CRAF Preference List and CRAF Active Lists no longer
permitted to fly CRAF flights.
E. CRAF ACTIVATION AND TRAINING
1. Upon activation of CRAF, the Company will determine the number of CRAF Flight Attendants
needed to staff CRAF, which shall be at least the minimum number of Flight Attendants
specified in Paragraph D.2.d. The Company shall offer CRAF and equipment qualification
training, if required, for Flight Attendants selected, in order of system seniority, for CRAF
activation. The Company will begin training no later than seventy-two (72) hours after CRAF
is activated by Air Mobility Command. and will continue to offer training in system seniority
order until all selected unqualified CRAF Flight Attendants have been trained.
2. Once trained and equipment qualified for CRAF operations, a Flight Attendant will be placed
on the CRAF Active List and shall be able to bid for sequences or lines of flying pursuant to
Paragraph F.1.
3.2. A Flight Attendant while on vacation, approved leave of absence, sick leave or on IOD, will
not be required to attend CRAF training until the completion of their vacation, leave or IOD,
except that a Flight Attendant at their option may cancel vacation in order to attend training or
may attend training during their vacation and receive training pay in addition to their vacation
pay. A Flight Attendant on a leave of absence may, upon request, attend CRAF training, if
approved in advance by the Inflight Department.
4.3. Supervisors, training instructors, or other management personnel will follow all provisions of
this Section and all hours of service and scheduling provisions of the Flight Attendant
Agreement, without waiver unless authorized by the APFA, while assigned to the CRAF
operation. While assigned to the CRAF operation, such supervisors, training instructors, or
other management personnel shall be prohibited from acting in a supervisory capacity.

-- 173 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-4
5.4. Travel between the Company’s CRAF Operation and the Flight Attendant’s crew base shall
be positive space. If positive space authorization travel is provided for pilots to/from their
residence for CRAF operations, the same provisions will be extended to Flight Attendants.
6.5. When a CRAF sequence ends with a deadhead flight, a Flight Attendant may elect to take
any available ferry flight instead of their scheduled deadhead. The Flight Attendant shall
receive pay, credit and Per Diem as if they flew the original deadhead flight. On deadhead
flights to and from CRAF assignments, a Flight Attendant(s) will be allowed to upgrade to
Business Class in accordance with Deadheading, Section 16.
7.6. A Flight Attendant awarded a CRAF sequence may request permission has the option to meet
the CRAF sequence at the first live segment and if granted will is not be required to deadhead
or ferry to or from their crew base. The Flight Attendant will be released after the last live
segment with full pay, credit, and Per Diem as published in the CRAF posting.
F. FLIGHT ASSIGNMENTS
1. Sequence and Line Construction/Awards
a. The Company will construct sequences that consist solely of CRAF flight segments,
including any deadhead or ferry flights.
b. All CRAF sequences will be communicated electronically to all Flight Attendants prior to
processing. Line Awards
i. The Company will construct lines if such flying is known and firm at the time of bid line
construction.
ii. Such lines shall consist of pure CRAF flying.
iii. Bid line awards in the CRAF operation will be in accordance with system seniority.
iv. Any CRAF sequence which remains unawarded at the completion of the bid line award
will be placed on the appropriate CRAF List for Daily and Future processing.
2. The Company will process CRAF sequences with Flight Attendants on the CRAF Preference
List.
a. Sequences will be awarded to Flight Attendants who are legal to originate the sequence
using system seniority up until 0800 DFW time the day prior to sequence origination. If
given the complexity of the CRAF activation, these time constraints are impractical, the
Company shall meet with APFA to determine a solution. After 0800 DFW time the day prior
to sequence origination, the Company may utilize system seniority, if time permits, or
process the sequences on a base seniority basis.
b. If the CRAF award creates an illegality or direct conflict with a future trip(s), excluding a
CRAF sequence, the Flight Attendant will be removed unpaid from the future trip(s).
c. If the award process is not automated, CRAF sequences will be awarded to the first Flight
Attendant(s) where positive contact is made. Crew Scheduling will not be required to wait
for a return call and will continue processing until positive contact is made. If a Flight
Attendant is called for two (2) CRAF sequences and does not respond, the Flight Attendant
will be bypassed for the current CRAF activation period unless they contact the Company
and indicates they wish to be called for the CRAF sequences.

-- 174 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-5
2. Post Line Sequence Assignments
a. Sequences that become known after line construction will be awarded on a single
sequence basis in accordance with Charters, Section 18.B.
3. A Flight Attendant will have the option to exceed their monthly maximum projection to pick up
a CRAF sequence.
4. A CRAF sequence may only be traded for another CRAF sequence with Company approval.
G. DUTY TIME/CREW REST
1. Duty Time and Rest provisions provided in the applicable FARs will apply to CRAF sequences.
CRAF flying will be scheduled in accordance with Hours of Service, Section 11.C. and 14.D.
At the Flight Attendant’s option, the twenty-four (24) hours may be taken out of crew base.
However, as an exception to International Flying, Section 14, (duty limitations), the two (2)
flight segments restriction shall be waived for CRAF Operations only.
2. Crew rest seats will be as provided for Flight Attendants on all CRAF flights exceeding eight
(8) hours of total flight time in Section 38, a duty period or any CRAF flights where pilots are
provided crew rest seats.
3. Crew rest seats will be provided as follows: On all CRAF flights exceeding eight (8) hours of
total flight time in a duty period, crew seats will be as provided in International Flying, Section
14. On B767 troop movement flights for CRAF or military charters scheduled over fourteen
(14) hours, two (2) Business Class crew rest seats in addition to at least one (1) seat in
Economy will be provided. On A330 troop movement flights for CRAF or military charters
scheduled over fourteen (14) hours, there will be two (2) Business Class crew rest seats in
addition to at least two (2) seats in Economy.
4. When a crew is required to work all flights in a duty period, i.e., the duty period does not
consist of any deadhead/ferry flying, the Company will have procedures in place that will
incorporate designated rest periods for crewmembers to ensure adequate rest. For duty
periods scheduled over fourteen (14) hours, adequate rest shall mean no less than two (2)
hours per Flight Attendant.
5.3. If the Company overnights (RON) crews during CRAF operations, overnight rest periods for
Flight Attendants will be the same as for pilots. In actual operations the duty period may be as
long as the pilots provided that any time over the actual duty period specified in Section 14,
the Flight Attendant will receive voluntary extension pay as specified in Section 11.O or 14.D
as applicable.
6.4. Upon completion of a CRAF sequence, a Flight Attendant shall, upon request, receive a
minimum of twenty-four (24) hours free from all duty prior to commencing another CRAF
sequence.
7.5. Flight Attendants will stay in the same hotel as the pilots.
H. INSURANCE BENEFITS
1. Any Flight Attendant who dies while in CRAF service, or who dies within a twenty-four (24)
month period subsequent to their CRAF service from a cause which arises out of their CRAF
service, shall have a death benefit payable to the Flight Attendant’s beneficiary as designated
by the Flight Attendant under the Life Insurance Plan. This death benefit shall be in an amount
which, when combined with the benefit payable under the Life Insurance Plan’s Company-

-- 175 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-6
paid Basic Life Insurance, yields a combined gross benefit of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000). Coverage will be provided on a “Trip Hour” basis while engaged in CRAF flying,
including any segment(s) rescheduled to commence CRAF operations.
2. Any Flight Attendant who dies in an accident, loses limb(s) or sight as the result of an accident
while in CRAF service, or within a twenty-four (24) month period subsequent to their CRAF
service from an accident occurring during their CRAF service, shall have a benefit payable to
the Flight Attendant’s beneficiary as designated by the Flight Attendant under the Life
Insurance Plan in the event of death, or to the Flight Attendant themself, in the event of loss
of limb or sight. The death benefit shall be in the gross amount of five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000). The benefit payable for loss of limb(s) or sight shall be five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000). Benefits provided pursuant to this Paragraph shall be paid in
lieu of the Company paid Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance provided in
accordance with Insurance, Retirement, and Other Benefits, Section 26.
3. Irrespective of any war limitation language that may be included in any Company Group
Medical or Insurance program, the Company will ensure that the equivalent medical benefits
will be payable in the event of claims arising from CRAF operations. Coverage will be provided
on a “Trip Hour” basis.
4. In the event a Flight Attendant becomes missing while engaged in the CRAF operation, the
combined one million dollars ($1,000,000) death benefits as provided for in Paragraphs H.1
and H.2 shall be paid upon the expiration of a twenty-four (24) month period, if such Flight
Attendant is still missing and their whereabouts are still unknown. The combined one million
dollars ($1,000,000) benefits will be paid prior to that time if the death of such missing flight
attendant is established.
5. An insurance briefing package will be provided to all CRAF Flight Attendants which will include
a beneficiary designation form.
I. GENERAL
1. The parties agree to review the terms and conditions of this Section within thirty (30) days of
the initiation of the Company’s CRAF Operation and prior to the commencement of each
month thereafter.
2. Crew meals and bottled water from a military in-flight kitchen, or from a commercial caterer,
shall be provided to Flight Attendants engaged in CRAF operations for each CRAF flight
segment and for all ground time scheduled in excess of two (2) hours. Such meals shall be
the same as those provided the Pilots.
3. The Company may conduct CRAF training within a scheduled duty period. Any ground school
training will be paid in accordance with Training, Section 29.
4. The Company shall ensure that all Flight Attendants, upon completion of CRAF training, shall
receive appropriate security clearances and restricted area identification, including, but not
necessarily limited to, the Geneva Convention Identity Card (DD Form 489), prior to entering
the restricted area.
5. All Flight Attendants shall be provided with full intelligence/safe passage briefings prior to
operating any CRAF sequence.
6. In no event will a Flight Attendant be involuntarily assigned to a CRAF segment which is
operated in unsafe airspace or into an unsecured airfield.

-- 176 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-7
7. Additional latex gloves and barrier masks will continue to be provided on CRAF flights.
8. Should a Flight Attendant member be injured or become ill while in performance of CRAF
duties, they shall be entitled to appropriate aero medical evacuation.
9. On ferry flights, Flight Attendants will not be required to perform duties other than normal
departure and arrival procedures to include assuming assigned jumpseat position,
arming/disarming doors, etc.
10. The parties recognize that some Flight Attendants have obligations in the armed forces of the
United States and any assignments made to the Company’s CRAF Operation would be
subject to such restrictions required by the CRAF contract(s).
11. The Company shall ensure that proper environmental protective equipment, treatment, and
training will be provided for all Flight Attendants to the extent necessitated by the operations,
e.g., chemical gear, antidotes, and inoculations.
12. Flight Attendants who participate in a CRAF assignment will not suffer a loss of benefits, or
receive diminished benefits, as a result of the CRAF assignment.
13. A Flight Attendant while assigned to the Company’s CRAF Operation shall be permitted to bid
on any vacancies e.g., crew base, Foreign Language Speaker.
J. NON-CRAF INTERNATIONAL MILITARY CHARTERS WITH ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS
CONSIDERATIONS INVOLVING MIDDLE EAST DESTINATIONS
1. Non-CRAF International charters will follow the provisions of Section 14.D, with the exception
a Mid-Range duty period may include one (1) or any mix of two (2) segments. Posting and
Filling Procedures for Non-CRAF Military Charters involving Middle East Destinations.
2. The Company may apply CRAF provisions 19.B.-G and 19.I to accommodate for additional
operational considerations of certain non-CRAF International charters.
a. The Company will staff these military charters using a system-wide volunteer list. Flight
Attendants whose names appear on the volunteer list will be used in order of seniority at
the crew base from which the military charter sequence originates.
i. In cases where the city from which the charter originates is not a Flight Attendant crew
base, the Company will use volunteers from the crew base city that will best
operationally support the military charter.
ii. In the event there are an insufficient number of volunteer Flight Attendants at the base
from which the charter is staffed, the Company will crew any remaining open positions
using volunteers from another base. Such base will be determined by the Company.
b. Minimum staffing requirements for these military charters will be:
i. 777 – nine (9) Flight Attendants
ii. 767 – seven (7) Flight Attendants
2. Schedule Conflict
a. A Flight Attendant’s maximum projection will be determined prior to the assignment of the
charter sequence and will be equal to the amount of hours on the Flight Attendant’s activity
record at that time.

-- 177 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-8
If there is no schedule conflict with the charter sequence, the Flight Attendant will be
removed from a future trip sequence(s) as an unpaid over-projection to bring the
projection back down to an amount equal to, or below the pre-determined maximum
allowed.
b. In the event a volunteer Flight Attendant has a schedule conflict with the charter
sequence, she/he will be removed from the conflicting trip(s) and will fly the military
charter. The Company agrees to pay each Flight Attendant the greater of the trip or trips
from which she/he was removed or the military charter trip.
c. A Flight Attendant will have the option to exceed her/his maximum projection in
Paragraphs J.2.a and J.2.b.
3. On-Duty Limitations
Due to the unique circumstances surrounding these charters, the on-duty limitations provided
in Hours of Service, Section 11, will be modified as follows:
a. Flight Attendants will not be scheduled to remain on-duty for more than eighteen (18)
hours, and in no case will a Flight Attendant be required to remain on-duty for more than
twenty (20) hours in one (1) duty period; however, the captain will determine whether the
crew will, in actual operations, exceed the twenty (20) hour on-duty limitation.
b. Flight Attendants may be scheduled in excess of twelve (12) consecutive block hours in
any twenty-four (24) consecutive hour period, provided such scheduled block hours
conforms to the on-duty limitations provided in Paragraph J.3.a.
c. All other legalities provided in Scheduling, Section 10, Hours of Service, Section 11, and
International chartersFlying, Section 14, will followapply.
4. Required Rest Period
a. A Flight Attendant who is scheduled to perform military charter flying as provided for in
Paragraph J, must be given a minimum layover rest equal to twice the scheduled or actual
flying time, whichever is greater, not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours.
b. The layover rest period following the charter duty period, and preceding a duty period in
which only deadheading is performed, shall be a minimum of twelve (12) hours. This rest
period may be waived by the Flight Attendant to deadhead.
c. The minimum rest period preceding a duty period involving eight (8) or more block hours
shall never be less than twelve (12) hours.
5. On-Board Crew Rest
a. In the event that revenue passengers are transported on both legs of a turn-around within
a duty period that exceeds the on-duty limitations provided in International Flying, Section
14, the Company will designate four (4) crew rest seats or four (4) crew rest bunks,
depending on aircraft type, irrespective of flying time. Crew rest will be as specified in
Crew Rest, Section 38.
b. On all other flights, the crew rest provisions of Crew Rest, Section 38, will apply.
6. Crew Meals

-- 178 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
19-9
The Company will provide a crew meal and a bottle of water for each Flight Attendant, either
working or deadheading, on each flight segment of the turn-around. Such crew meals will be
identical to those provided to the pilots.
7. Exchange of Trips
Because of the special nature of these military charters, Flight Attendants, once assigned, will
not be permitted to trip trade or drop these sequences.
8. Volunteer List
The volunteer list used to staff these special non-CRAF military charters described herein will
be the same volunteer list provided in Paragraph D.

-- 179 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
20-1
SECTION 20 - SENIORITY
A. OCCUPATIONAL SENIORITY
1. as A Flight Attendant’s occupational seniority shall be based upon the length of service as a
Flight Attendant with the Company.
2. Occupational Seniority - For Flight Attendants hired before August 1, 2014, seniority among
Flight Attendants is based on the seniority list proffered to the Company on October 1, 2014.
For Flight Attendants hired after August 1, 2014, seniority among Flight Attendants shall be
based on the first day of initial training. or, where applicable, on the adjusted seniority
integration date (SID) as determined during the seniority integration process. The parties
accept the October 1, 2014 Seniority List as correct. Such seniority will continue to accrue
except as provided in Paragraphs D and E.
3. The order of seniority of Flight Attendants who begin training on the same date will be
determined by the Flight Attendants' date of birth, with the oldest Flight Attendant being placed
first on the Seniority List except that Company employees transferring from another department
will be first in seniority within their training class. If there is more than one (1) Flight Attendant
with the same birth date, the ascending last four (4) digits of the Social Security Number will
be used to determine relative seniority.
4. When there is more than one such Company employee in a class, their relative seniority will be
established on the basis of Company date of hire, with the Company employee with the earliest
Company date of hire being placed first on the Seniority List. Nothing herein shall give a
transferring Company employee greater seniority than a Flight Attendant with an earlier date
of hire as a Flight Attendant nor change the relative seniority of Flight Attendants employed
prior to the effective date of this Agreement. If there is more than one (1) Flight Attendant with
the same company hire date and birth date, the ascending last 4 digits of the Social Security
Number will be used to determine relative seniority.
5. Occupational Seniority shall govern all Flight Attendants for purposes of bidding rights,
furlough, recall, vacation preferences, and filling of vacancies, and for pass travel purposes if
Company Travel Policy utilizes seniority for pass travel purposes.
B. CLASSIFICATION/LONGEVITY SENIORITY
1. For compensation and vacation accrual, classification/longevity seniority shall begin to accrue
on the date of graduation as a Flight Attendant and shall continue to accrue during such period
of employment, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
2. As of December 13, 2014,As of the date of ratification of this Agreement, a Flight Attendant
shall retain classification/longevity for pay and vacation accrual purposes for any time accrued
in another Company position that prior to December 13, 2014, had has been applied toward
Flight Attendant service in accordance with a previous Collective Bargaining Agreement. As
of the date of ratification of this Agreement, Flight Attendant accrued longevity shall be
retained for pay and vacation accrual purposes and will be subject to future adjustments
pursuant to Leaves of Absences, Section 25.
C. SENIORITY LIST
1. The System Seniority List shall be revised to reflect each Flight Attendant’s respective
seniority as of January 1st and July 1st of each year and shall be posted on the Company

-- 180 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
20-2
intranet and at each crew base within thirty (30) days thereafter. This list will contain the
name, Company ID number, seniority date, and crew base of each Flight Attendant.
2. A Flight Attendant shall have thirty (30) days after the posting of such list in which to protest
in writing to the Company any alleged omission or incorrect posting affecting their seniority on
any such revised list, but such protest shall be confined strictly to error or change occurring
subsequent to the posting of the prior System Seniority List.
3. When a Flight Attendant is on vacation or an authorized leave of absence, e.g., medical,
maternity, adoption, educational, sick leave, jury duty, etc., at the time the above list is posted,
such Flight Attendant may protest any alleged omission or incorrect posting within thirty (30)
days after their return to duty.
4. The Company shall provide the Union via electronic means with the System Seniority List at
the same time it is posted and notify the Union of any changes to this list as a result of protests
filed by Flight Attendants as provided in Paragraph C.
D. A Flight Attendant whose service with the Company is permanently severed shall forfeit their
seniority rights.
E. TRANSFER TO NON-FLYING OR SUPERVISORY DUTIES
1. Temporary Transfer to Inflight Management and Related Inflight Duties, e.g., Food &
Beverage, Training, etc.
A Flight Attendant who accepts a temporary position shall continue to accrue and retain
Occupational Seniority, Company Seniority and Classification/Longevity Seniority while
holding such temporary position.
2. Transfer to Inflight Management and Related Inflight Duties, e.g., Food & Beverage, Training,
etc.
a. A Flight Attendant who transfers to a Management or other non-flying duties directly
related to Inflight shall continue to accrue and retain Occupational Seniority, Company
Seniority and Classification/Longevity Seniority while holding such position.
b. Flight Attendants who are serving in positions covered by Paragraph E and are currently
retaining Occupational Seniority shall be extended the retention and accrual provisions in
Paragraph E.1.
c. In order to accrue and retain seniority, the Inflight employee must maintain Flight
Attendant qualifications.
F. TRANSFER TO NON-RELATED DUTIES
1. A Flight Attendant who transfers to another position in the Company not related to Flight
Attendant duties shall retain and continue to accrue Occupational Seniority for one (1) year,
and thereafter their name shall be deleted from the Flight Attendant System Seniority List.
2. The time a Flight Attendant works in another position for American Airlines while on a “furlough
status” as a Flight Attendant under Section 23.E.2 will not count toward the one (1) year period
in this Paragraph.
G. TRANSFER DUE TO DISABILITY

-- 181 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
20-3
A Flight Attendant who is transferred to non-flying duties with the Company because of physical
incapacity, sickness or injury, shall retain and continue to accrue seniority during such period of
sickness or injury for the amount of time provided in Leaves of Absence, Section 25, including any
approved extension.
H. DUES PAYMENT
Inflight Management and related employees covered by Paragraphs E.2 and F shall not be required
to pay dues to the APFA.
I. RETURN TO LINE FLIGHT STATUS
Upon return to duty from non-flying or Inflight duties as outlined in Paragraphs E, F, and G, the
Flight Attendant will be permitted to return to their former base station. Should the former base no
longer exist, the Flight Attendant will be permitted to fill any vacancy. Flight Attendants returning
to duty under this Paragraph shall be subject to a reasonable qualifying period and must meet the
basic qualifications of all other Flight Attendants.
J. RIGHT OF REPRESENTATION
None of the provisions of this Section or any other provision of this Agreement shall cause
individuals who are serving in positions covered by Paragraphs E.2 or F to be covered by the
provisions of this Agreement, and the APFA shall not have the right nor obligation to represent such
individuals.

-- 182 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
21-1
SECTION 21 - PERIOD OF PROBATION
A. PROBATION - LENGTH, DEFINITION AND TRIP TRADE
1. During the first six (6) months of service with the Company on Flight Attendant status, a Flight
Attendant shall be on probation. Should a probationary Flight Attendant be in a non-pay status
for more than sixteen (16) consecutive calendar days, or be granted an approved leave of
absence, paid or unpaid, for more than sixteen (16) calendar days, the probationary period
shall be extended by the number of days such Flight Attendant was in a non-pay status.
2. The Company shall have the right to discharge or lay off any Flight Attendant during the
probationary period without cause and without hearing.
3. Probationary Flight Attendants will be permitted to trip trade without notice or approval during
the period following bid finalization up to first day of the next contractual month.
4. After the beginning of the contractual month, a Probationary Flight Attendant may change their
schedule during the contractual month provided contact is made and approval is given by their
Inflight Manager or, in the Inflight Manager's absence, the Inflight Manager's designee. The
decision to grant or deny the requested schedule change will be timely and will not be
unreasonably withheld.
B. SENIORITY RIGHTS ON PROBATION
The seniority provisions of the Agreement do not apply to a Flight Attendant until such Flight
Attendant has completed the probationary period, except that:
1. Flight Attendants' names will appear on the Seniority List regardless of their probationary
status;
2. A Flight Attendant laid off during the probationary period shall be recalled in order of
seniority.

-- 183 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
22-1
SECTION 22 - FILLING OF VACANCIES
A. VACANCY TRANSFERS
Flight Attendant vacancies occurring at any base shall be posted no earlier than the twelfth (12th)
and no later than the sixteenth (16th) of the calendar month three (3) months prior to the effective
date at all Flight Attendant crew bases. as far in advance as practicable. Such postings bulletins
shall state the following:
1. the effective date of the transfer,
2. the reasons why the vacancies exist,
3. the crew base(s) where the vacancies exist,
4. the number of vacancies to be filled,
5. the bases that will or, a deadline date after which bids will not be backfilled at the time of the
considered (not less than ten (10) days and not more than fourteen (14) days after the date
of the posting, if known at the time of the posting,
2.6. the posted close date of the twenty-sixth (26th) of the calendar month at 1200 DFW three (3)
months prior to the effective transfer date,
7. the posted award date of the twenty-seventh (27th) of the calendar month at 1200 DFW three
(3) months prior to, the effective date of the transfer date.
8. the highest seniority number for Reserve status in each of the last four (4) months, and,
9. the lowest seniority number able to hold a line of flying in the crew base in each of the last
four (4) months known line awardsaward. Upon final determination that a Flight Attendant will
be displaced, the Flight Attendant will be provided written notice of the displacement along
with a priority return preference form
B. In the event that the Company intends to open or close a crew base, the Company will promptly
meet and confer with the APFA National President and share the analysis upon which the decision
is based. The Company may close the affected crew base if the analysis upon which the decision
is based establishes that there is a cost savings generated by the closing.
C. A Flight Attendant who wishes to transfer to another crew base may complete and file a standing
transfer request form with the Company. A Flight Attendant has the right to withdraw a transfer
request electronically provided a written request for withdrawal is received by the Company prior
to the close of the vacancy bid. Upon a vacancy transfer, a Flight Attendant shall not have the
request for another vacancy transfer honored for a period of three (3) months from the date of
transfer. However, if the Flight Attendant’s first or second base of choice becomes open during
this three (3) month lock-in period, and such base was not open during the previous three (3)
months prior to the awarded transfer, a Flight Attendant shall have their first preference honored
and awarded based on seniority.
D. VACANCY AWARDS
1. Flying status: The most senior Flight Attendant who is in an active flying status bidding,
including standing transfer requests, whose name appears on the system seniority list, shall

-- 184 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
22-2
be awarded the vacancy, except as provided in Paragraph G.
2. To be eligible for a vacancy transfer, a Flight Attendant must be showing active status on
either the date of the award or the effective date of the transfer. This verification will occur on
the transfer award date. Non-flying Status: A Flight Attendant in a non-flying status will be
allowed to transfer if her/his report to base can be accomplished within fifteen (15) days of the
scheduled report date. In such case, the following shall apply:
3. On the effective date of a vacancy transfer, a Flight Attendant will be required to possess the
applicable equipment and service qualifications, and visa requirements for the crew base for
which they are awarded.
4. A vacancy transfer may not be rescinded.
5. Vacancies will be awarded in seniority order.
4.6. The Company will make available to Flight attendants a list of the qualifications required and/or
held at a particular base.
7. Relocation Days: Upon Flight Attendant request, prior to the effective date of transfer the
Company must shall provide a Flight Attendant who voluntarily transfers is awarded a
vacancy transfer to another crew base with five (5) consecutive calendar days free from all
duty for the purpose of relocating. Such settling relocation days shall be provided subject to
coverage requirements, but shall will be subject to black-out dates as specified in Section
5.D.3. Relocation day(s) will not be subject to payment for time lost or any expenses
incurred. The unpaid and uncredited relocation day(s) will be designated
as a preplanned absence in PBS and will not be considered as part of the required number of
off day(s) in that bid month.
8. A Flight Attendant involved in a vacancy transfer shall make every effort to bid their schedule
to be positioned and available to take an assignment or award at the new base. The Flight
Attendant will be responsible for rearranging their schedule to avoid sequence/reserve
obligations.
a. A Reserve who cannot rearrange their schedule to avoid a conflict may either have an off
day moved to allow transit to the new base; or have the day off unpaid and have their
guarantee reduced by the applicable daily rate. The Reserve’s option will normally be
granted, however in out of the ordinary situations that result in staffing irregularities, Crew
Scheduling may determine whether the Reserve may move a day off or have their
guarantee reduced.
b. A Lineholder who cannot rearrange their schedule to avoid a conflict shall be removed
from the first sequence and shall not be paid or credited for the trip removal.
a. A Flight Attendant in a non-flying status on the effective date of a transfer who reverts to
active status by 2359 home base time (HBT) of the fifteenth (15th) day from the scheduled
report date will retain her/his transfer.
b. Should a Flight Attendant in a non-flying status on the effective date of the transfer revert
to flying status as described in Paragraph D.1, but subsequently reverts back to non-flying
status prior to the fifteenth (15th) day from the scheduled report date that the transfer is to
become effective the following shall apply:
i. If between the two absences the Flight Attendant flies a trip sequence at her/his new

-- 185 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
22-3
base or if she/he has another obligation at the new base, e.g., training, available day
or day of reserve, she/he will retain her/his transfer.
ii. If between the two absences the Flight Attendant does not fly a trip or complete an
obligation as described in Paragraph 2.b.i, she/he will forfeit her/his transfer.
iii. A Flight Attendant who is in a flying status between 0001 to 2359 HBT on the effective
date of transfer but who subsequently goes into a non-flying status within fifteen (15)
days of the scheduled report date will retain her/his transfer.
E. A Flight Attendant will be able to submit their transfer bids electronically on Company Intranet.
Upon request, the Company shall provide the APFA National President the names and seniority
numbers(s) of all Flight Attendant(s) bidding for the positions(s), including those with standing bids,
and which Flight Attendants were awarded the position(s) via electronic file.
F. If a vacancy is posted and no Flight Attendant bids, such vacancy may be filled pursuant to
Paragraph H, or by a new Flight Attendant if no Flight Attendant remains on involuntary furlough.
G. A Flight Attendant on an authorized leave of absence, as provided for in Leaves of Absence,
Section 25, shall retain and hold their position at the crew base at which the Flight Attendant was
located prior to going on such leave of absence, unless otherwise displaced or furloughed pursuant
to the provisions of this Agreement.
H. DISPLACEMENT/PRIORITY RETURN
1. When a Flight Attendant is displaced, the displaced Flight Attendant shall be the most junior
Flight Attendant at the crew base.
2. Upon final determination that a Flight Attendant will be displaced, the Flight Attendant will be
provided electronic notice of the displacement along with a priority return preference form.
2.3. When a Flight Attendant is displaced as a result of overstaffing at their crew base, they shall
be permitted to exercise their seniority to fill open vacancies throughout the system. The
APFA and the Company shall meet and discuss the available vacancies and, to the extent
possible, agree to create openings which are:
a. In close proximity to the crew base being reduced or closed; and,
b. At a base that operates similar flying, e.g., International flying.
3.4. A Flight Attendant who is displaced on or after December 13, 2014 the effective date of this
agreement may exercise priority return over non-displaced Flight Attendants and utilize their
seniority to return to their former crew base when a vacancy occurs or the crew base is
reopened. Furthermore, free available space on Company transportation facilities for the
shipping of personal belongings shall be furnished to the extent permitted by law.
4.5. A Flight Attendant who wishes to exercise this option of returning to their former crew base
must file the preference form within thirty (30) days of their displacement. Should the Flight
Attendant decline the first opportunity to exercise a priority return, the or subsequently transfer
voluntarily to a crew base in another location, this right of return will be forfeited. Subsequent
displacements or transfers will not cause the Flight Attendant to forfeit the right of return.
5.6. If a priority return preference form is on file at the time a Flight Attendant is involuntarily
furloughed, the priority return will remain on file. However, the priority return will be considered
in an inactive state and the Company will not process the request while the Flight Attendant

-- 186 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
22-4
remains on an involuntary furlough status. Upon a Flight Attendant’s recall to active status
from an involuntary furlough, the Flight Attendant’s priority return request will return to an
active state provided the Flight Attendant has not withdrawn the priority return while on
involuntary furlough. The Flight Attendant shall be only able to exercise the priority return for
vacancies subsequent to the Flight Attendant’s return to service and this does not confer a
right for priority recall from furlough to a given crew base.
6.7. A Flight Attendant who is involuntarily furloughed and recalled to a crew base other than the
crew base from which they were furloughed may file a priority return preference form within
thirty (30) days from the date of recall to the new crew base. The Flight Attendant shall be
only able to exercise the priority return for vacancies subsequent to their return to service and
this does not confer a right for priority recall from furlough to a given crew base.
7.8. Upon request, the Company will provide the APFA National President with notification when
vacancies are filled by a Flight Attendant with a priority return on file. Such notification shall
include the names and seniority of Flight Attendants with priority returns on file for the crew
base and the names of the Flight Attendants awarded the positions.
8.9. The Company shall provide each furloughed and displaced Flight Attendants with a packet
detailing their options and shall provide a copy of the packet to the APFA National President.
I. CREW BASE CLOSURE
1. When a crew base is closed or moved to a new location, any Flight Attendant who is affected
shall be allowed to exercise their seniority to move to a crew base where vacancies exist and
to exercise their seniority at such crew base. The APFA and the Company shall utilize the
process specified in Paragraph H.3. All such moves shall be considered as being at the
request of the Company. A crew base shall be considered closed if the location of the new
crew base is greater than seventy-five (75) miles from the existing crew base.
2. The Company will provide Flight Attendants with as much advance notice as practicable of a
base closing, but in no case will Flight Attendants receive less than one hundred and twenty
(120) days’ notice, except when the base closure is a result of unforeseen circumstances.
J. FOREIGN LANGUAGE SPEAKER VACANCY TRANSFERS SPEAKERS
1. Vacancies for foreign language speakers will be filled in accordance with the provisions in
Section 22. However, only a language qualified Flight Attendant will be considered eligible to
bid for such vacancy.
2. In order to maintain the minimum requirements of the operation, the Company may retain
foreign language qualified Flight Attendants in a crew base where displacements may
otherwise be occurring. Foreign language speaker vacancies that are not bid for a given crew
base may be involuntarily assigned to the language qualified Flight Attendant with the least
system seniority or by a new hire language qualified Flight Attendant, if no Flight Attendants
remain on involuntary furlough.
3. A Flight Attendant awarded or assigned to a crew base on the basis of their language
qualification may be required to serve a lock-in as described in Section 15.B, Foreign
Language Speaker.
3.4. In the event of a furlough, the system seniority provision of Seniority, Section 20, will prevail
and there will be no exception for Foreign Language Speaker qualified Flight Attendants as it
relates to furlough.

-- 187 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
22-5
K. MUTUAL TRANSFERS
1. The Company will allow establish a method of allowing Flight Attendants from different crew
base stations within the same Operation to mutually transfer as provided herein. Mutual
transfers will be processed in seniority order to satisfy as many Flight Attendants as possible
within the constraints of the mutual transfer platform, provided such swaps do not result in a
headcount change for the bases. Any changes to the processing of mutual transfers will be
agreed upon by the Company and the APFA
2. The Company will process Mutual Transfers on a monthly basis following the processing of
vacancy transfer requests, if applicable, as described in Paragraph A.
3. Mutual transfers will have a close date of the twenty-sixth (26th) of the calendar month at 1200
DFW three (3) months prior to the effective transfer date.
4. Mutual transfers will have an award date of the twenty-eighth (28th) of the calendar month at
1200 DFW three (3) months prior to the effective transfer date.
4.5. A Flight Attendant who desires a Mutual Transfer will be able to should update their standing
preference list.
5.6. The Company will maintain and post a list of Flight Attendants requesting Mutual Transfers.
6.7. Flight Attendants will be required to possess the same base equipment and service
qualifications to be eligible for the transfer award.
8. Flight Attendants may be required to possess the same language qualifications.
a. Mutual Transfers will be processed in system seniority order.
b. Flight Attendants may be required to possess the same equipment/service qualifications
and/or the same language qualifications. The net result of required equipment and/or
language qualification shall be the same between bases. The most junior Flight
Attendant causing the qualification imbalance within the pool may be required to attend
training.
c. Any required training must be accomplished on day(s) off, available day(s) or a reserve
day at the first available opportunity. If the first available opportunity to attend training
conflicts with a scheduled trip sequence, the Flight Attendant will be removed from the
sequence unpaid and uncredited and the guarantee will be adjusted accordingly.
d. Failure to complete the required training during the first month that it is offered will result
in a non-qualified status without regard to the current qualifications until such base
qualification is obtained.
7.9. A Flight Attendant must be in an active (in a flying status) the entire calendar day of the
mutual transfer match in order to be eligible for the transfer.
8.10. Applicable base visa requirements must be obtained prior to reporting to the new base.
9.11. When a transfer match is made, those Flight Attendants desiring the Mutual Transfer
shall be notified by the Company. Such transfer shall be effective on the first day of the next
contractual month as defined in this Agreement. A Flight Attendant may not rescind a Mutual
Transfer. award

-- 188 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
22-6
10.12. The mutual transfer shall be at the Flight Attendant’s expense.
13. The Company will make available to Flight Attendants a list of the qualifications typically
required and/or held at a particular base.
14. The Company will make available to Flight Attendants the bases(s) requiring a visa and the
process to obtain required visas.
15. A Flight Attendant involved in a mutual transfer shall make every effort to bid their schedule
to be positioned and available to take an assignment or award at the new base. The Flight
Attendant will be responsible for rearranging their schedule to avoid sequence/reserve
obligations.
a. A Reserve who cannot rearrange their schedule to avoid a conflict may either have an off
day moved to allow transit to the new base; or have the day off unpaid and have their
guarantee reduced by the applicable daily rate. The Reserve’s option will normally be
granted, however in out of the ordinary situations that result in staffing irregularities, Crew
Scheduling may determine whether the Reserve may move a day off or have their
guarantee reduced.
b. A Lineholder who cannot rearrange their schedule to avoid a conflict, the Flight Attendant
shall be removed from the first sequence and shall not be paid or credited for the trip
removal.
11.16. Flight Attendants are eligible to mutual transfer each month regardless of an existing lock-
in. The Flight Attendant transferring to the base where the lock-in exists will be required to
fulfill the remaining portion of the lock-in.
12. A Flight Attendant involved in a Mutual Transfer shall be responsible for rearranging her/his
schedule to avoid trip sequence conflicts. If the Flight Attendant cannot rearrange her/his
schedule to avoid a conflict, the Flight Attendant shall be removed from the first trip
sequence at the new base as a schedule conflict, and the Flight Attendant shall not be paid
or credited for the trip removal and the monthly guarantee shall be reduced accordingly.
L. MUTUAL TRANSFERS WHILE ON A PERIOD OF PROBATION
1. A probationary Flight Attendant will be eligible to mutual transfer in accordance with this
Section. Paragraph K.
a. A probationary Flight Attendant awarded a mutual transfer will be required to attend a
Base Indoctrination at their new base.
b. Such Base Indoctrination will be scheduled by Inflight and if it conflicts with a scheduled
trip sequence, the Flight Attendant will be removed from the sequence unpaid and
uncredited, but monthly guarantee will not be impacted.
c. Failure to attend a Base Indoctrination will result in a non-qualified status without regard
to the current qualifications until a Base Indoctrination is completed.
2. A probationary Flight Attendant may only be awarded either a mutual transfer or a vacancy
transfer one (1) time during their Period of Probation.

-- 189 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
23-1
SECTION 23 - REDUCTION IN FORCE
A. When a reduction in force is deemed necessary, the Company will notify and confer with the APFA
as soon as possible after the reductions are anticipated. After notifying APFA of the projected
number of Flight Attendant positions needed to be reduced and the duration of time that the
reduction in force will be in effect, a general notice indicating the number and expected duration of
furloughs will be placed on Flight Attendant bulletin boards and communicated electronically to
Flight Attendants. The Company shall also provide an up-to-date Seniority List to the APFA.
B. ALTERNATIVES TO INVOLUNTARY FURLOUGHS
1. When such a reduction in force is deemed necessary, the Company will offer the following on
the basis of system wide seniority, except Leave in Lieu of Furlough, which shall be offered
by crew base seniority:
a. Voluntary Furlough
The Company will offer Flight Attendants who would not have been involuntarily
furloughed the opportunity to accept a Voluntary Furlough. The commencement of such
Voluntary Furloughs will coincide with the date(s) established for involuntary furloughs.
The benefits of a Voluntary Furlough will include on-line passes in accordance with
Company policy for the duration of the Voluntary Furlough. The Company will not actively
contest claims for unemployment benefits filed by Flight Attendants accepting Voluntary
Furlough. Voluntary Furloughs shall be for a set duration(s) established by the Company.
A Flight Attendant on a Voluntary Furlough shall accrue occupational seniority, as well as
longevity for pay and vacation purposes up to the Expiration Date of the Voluntary
Furlough.
b. Voluntary Travel Separation Program (VTSP)
In the event of an involuntary furlough as described above, the Company will offer a
Voluntary Travel Separation Program (VTSP) pursuant to Company policy for Flight
Attendants who would not otherwise have been furloughed. The VTSP will provide a fixed
number of passes annually based on years of service and other additional incentives may
be discussed with the APFA National President.
c. Leave in Lieu of Furlough
A Leave in Lieu of Furlough without pay will be offered on the basis of crew base seniority
in lieu of a reduction of force at a particular crew base. The leave will be offered for a set
duration with the understanding that the Company may not cancel the leave without the
agreement of the Flight Attendant. The Leave in Lieu of Furlough provisions will be in
accordance with Leaves of Absence, Section 25. The Company will have satisfied its
obligation to offer a Leave in Lieu of Furlough if the provisions of the Voluntary Furlough
Program are the same as or better than those of the Leave in Lieu of Furlough.
Occupational seniority and longevity will continue to accrue for the duration of the leave.
Sick and Vacation accrual will follow the provisions of Section 8.A.3 and Section 9.C.1.a.
and b. Benefits, including Medical, Dental and Vision coverage, Life Insurance and AD&D
benefits will be in accordance with Company policy. Non-Revenue Travel privileges will
continue as if an active Flight Attendant for the duration of the leave. The Company will
not actively contest claims for unemployment benefits filed by Flight Attendants accepting
a Leave in Lieu of Furlough.

-- 190 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
23-2
2. In the event of a circumstance over which the Company does not have control as defined in
Recognition and Scope, Section 1, the Company shall offer the alternative to involuntary
furlough specified in Paragraph B.1.a, simultaneously with the notice of involuntary furlough
as specified in Paragraph C.2.
3. At the time a Flight Attendant is due to return from Voluntary Furlough because their Voluntary
Furlough is terminating (the date of termination is referred to herein as the “Expiration Date”),
the Flight Attendant may choose from the following options:
a. Return to service as a Flight Attendant with the Company;
b. If Flight Attendants remain on involuntary furlough or the Company does not need some
or all of the Voluntary Furloughees to return from furlough, the Flight Attendants may elect,
in seniority order, to remain on furlough status and shall remain on such status in
accordance with the following provisions:
i. Extension of the voluntary furlough for an indefinite duration until recalled;
ii. Non-revenue, space-available travel privileges (on-line, no guest traveler companion
passes) for the duration of the furlough;
iii. If currently receiving medical and/or dental coverage under the Voluntary Furlough, the
option to continue the medical and/or dental coverage pursuant to COBRA, i.e., for a
maximum of eighteen (18) months from the Extension Date, at the full monthly
premium plus a two percent (2%) administrative fee;
iv. Retain and accrue longevity through the Expiration Date, but no accrual of longevity
beyond the Expiration Date;
v. Carry-over of pre-furlough sick bank, if any, but no accrual of sick leave; and,
vi. Carry-over of pre-furlough vacation, if any, but no additional accrual of vacation.
c. Accept a VTSP, with terms and conditions set at the Company’s sole discretion.
4. The recall of voluntary and involuntary furloughees shall occur in the following order:
a. Involuntary furloughees will be offered recall in accordance with Paragraph C;
b. After all procedures for recall under Paragraph C, have been exhausted, voluntary
furloughees who have elected to remain on furlough status in accordance with Paragraph
B.3.b.i, will be offered recall in inverse seniority order. Any voluntary furloughee who
declines recall will be deemed to have resigned and the Flight Attendant’s name will be
removed from the system seniority list.
5. A Flight Attendant who was granted a VTSP or any other separation incentive program by the
Company prior to the date of this agreement will continue to be covered by the terms and
conditions of the program in effect at the time the Flight Attendant accepted entry into the
program.
C. INVOLUNTARY FURLOUGH
1. When a Flight Attendant is furloughed because of a reduction in force, it shall be done in
inverse order of system seniority.

-- 191 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
23-3
2. Once the election process in Paragraph B.1.a is completed, and it is known which Flight
Attendants will be involuntarily furloughed, the Company shall mail a Flight Attendant written
notice of furlough postmarked at least fifteen (15) calendar days before the effective date of
the furlough. The APFA shall be given a listing of Flight Attendants who have been sent
furlough notices.
3. In the event a Flight Attendant is assigned to a duty period beyond the effective date of the
furlough notice, that Flight Attendant’s furlough date and any Flight Attendant senior to her/him
scheduled to be furloughed on the same date, will have their furlough date adjusted to reflect
the completion of the extended duty period.
4. Due to furloughing in inverse order of system seniority, displacement of a Flight Attendant
may be necessary to balance Flight Attendants at any crew base. Displacement of Flight
Attendants is covered in this Agreement, Filling of Vacancies, Section 22, and Moving
Expenses, Section 5.
5. A Flight Attendant who has been furloughed due to a reduction in force shall file their address
with the Company and thereafter shall, as soon as possible, advise Inflight of any change in
address. The Company shall, within fourteen (14) days, furnish the APFA with these
addresses and subsequent address changes.
6. A Flight Attendant who is displaced in accordance with Paragraph C.4, shall have the privilege
of returning to their former crew base in accordance with Filling of Vacancies, Section 22.H.4
and Paragraph C.8, when a vacancy occurs in the former crew base.
7. A Flight Attendant who is recalled to a crew base other than the one from which their was
furloughed may exercise priority return over non-displaced Flight Attendants and utilize their
seniority to return to their former crew base in accordance with Paragraph C.8 and Filling of
Vacancies, Section 22.H.6, when a vacancy occurs or the crew base is reopened.
8. A Flight Attendant who is furloughed shall be recalled in order of their seniority at the time of
furlough. Crew base transfers for all non-furloughed Flight Attendants shall be honored before
a furloughed Flight Attendant is recalled to a crew base. Transfer requests for displaced Flight
Attendants with a priority right of return on file will be processed but furloughed Flight
Attendants will only exercise priority of return upon return to active status.
9. A furloughed Flight Attendant who fails to accept a recall shall remain on furloughed status
and said offer of recall shall be extended to the Flight Attendant next on the seniority list until
there are no more junior Flight Attendants on furlough. A furloughed Flight Attendant who
fails to accept a recall when there are no more junior Flight Attendants on furlough shall be
considered to have resigned from the Company.
10. A Flight Attendant who is furloughed shall, upon return to duty, be credited with all longevity
for pay and vacation step increases that they had accrued prior to such furlough.
11. A Flight Attendant who completed their probationary period at the time of furlough shall
continue to retain and accrue seniority for the duration of their furlough. A Flight Attendant
who returns from a furlough after a period greater than five (5) years shall be subject to a
probationary period pursuant to Period of Probation, Section 21.
12. The Company shall recall furloughed Flight Attendants in order of seniority. Notice of recall
shall be by second day delivery service, (signature required) sent to the most recent recall
address provided by the Flight Attendant and shall specify the name and address of the
Company official to whom the Flight Attendant shall forward their reply and the approximate
number of days of anticipated employment. A furloughed Flight Attendant failing to notify the

-- 192 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
23-4
Company of their intention to return within seven (7) days after receipt of notice of recall and
who fails to return within sixteen (16) days after receipt of such notice, will be considered to
have resigned.
13. A Flight Attendant who has completed one (1) year or more of service will receive severance
pay based on the average number of Company paid hours in the most recent twelve (12)
active full months (not on an unpaid Leave of Absence during the month) in the preceding
twenty-four (24) month period prior to the furlough date. If a Flight Attendant does not have
twelve (12) full months, the most recent partial months will be included in the twelve (12)
month average. If a Flight Attendant does not have a combination of twelve (12) full and partial
months, zero hour months will be included in the twelve (12) month average.hours flown in
the twelve (12) full months prior to the furlough date as per the following schedule:
Pay will be per the following schedule:
Years of Active Service Furlough Pay
1 year but less than 2 years 0.5 month
2 years but less than 3 years 1.0 month
3 years but less than 4 years 1.5 months
4 years but less than 5 years 2.0 months
5 years but less than 6 years 2.5 months
6 years but less than 7 years 3.0 months
7 years but less than 8 years 3.5 months
8 years but less than 9 years 4.0 months
9 years and thereafter 4.5 months
14. Furloughed Flight Attendants and their dependents shall be eligible to remain in the
Company’s group medical and dental insurance plans through any period of furlough pay.
Following the furlough pay period, the Flight Attendant may continue medical and dental
coverage under COBRA by paying the entire premium. The Flight Attendant may continue
coverage in this manner for a period in accordance with COBRA, or until they are covered
under another group health plan, whichever occurs earlier.
15. Group life insurance coverage will be extended through any period of furlough pay. Upon
completion of the furlough pay period, group life insurance coverage shall cease. However,
the Flight Attendant may convert the coverage to an individual policy. Premiums for the
converted policy and a statement of good health are determined by the Company’s insurance
carrier. Each furloughed Flight Attendant will receive a conversion form from the Company
for the purpose of continuing such insurance, if desired, with no lapse in coverage.
16. The Company shall not fill any Flight Attendant positions with an internal transfer while any
Flight Attendant is on furlough. For the purposes of this Section, an internal transfer is defined
as a Company employee who does not have a current Inflight seniority number and whose
name does not appear on the Flight Attendant System Seniority List.
17. A Flight Attendant who accepts recall and reports for duty and is subsequently furloughed
within one (1) month shall be guaranteed a minimum of one (1) month’s pay.
18. A furloughed Flight Attendant will return to active status on the specified date of recall.
19. Flight Attendants who are involuntarily furloughed are entitled to unlimited on-line passes for
twenty-four (24) months with a boarding priority in accordance with Company policy.

-- 193 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
23-5
D. LEAVE IN LIEU OF CREW BASE DISPLACEMENT
The Company may offer a Leave in Lieu of Crew Base Displacement on the basis of crew base
seniority in lieu of a downsizing at a particular crew base. The leave will be offered for a set duration
with the understanding that the Company may not cancel the leave without the agreement of the
Flight Attendant.
Occupational seniority and longevity will continue to accrue for the duration of the leave. Sick and
Vacation accrual will follow the provisions of Section 8.A.3 and Section 9.C.1.a. and b. Benefits,
including Medical, Dental and Vision coverage, Life Insurance and AD&D benefits will be in
accordance with Company policy. Non-Revenue Travel privileges will continue as if an active Flight
Attendant for the duration of the leave. The Company will not actively contest claims for
unemployment benefits filed by Flight Attendants accepting a Leave in Lieu of Crew Base
Displacement.
D.E. EDUCATION/INTERIM EMPLOYMENT
1. Education/Interim Employment Outside the Company
a. A Flight Attendant who accepts employment while on furlough which requires a
contractual commitment for a period of up to three (3) years, shall be allowed to fulfill such
obligation and shall be considered to be on personal leave of absence commencing with
the date of recall until fulfillment of such employment obligation, provided such Flight
Attendant has notified the Company prior to such contractual commitment. A Flight
Attendant who has entered into a full-time educational program while on furlough and who
receives notice of recall before said program is completed shall be placed on a leave of
absence (personal) until the end of the current semester.
b. Paragraph E.1.a, under certain conditions allows a Flight Attendant to pass recall. In
addition, a furloughed Flight Attendant who can substantiate that alternate employment
would require her/him to sign a contract with an interim employer for a specific period of
time that would exceed the time stipulated in Paragraph E.1.a, shall file a request and
substantiated documentation for approval by the Inflight Department prior to a furloughed
Flight Attendant accepting such interim employment. When such Flight Attendant is
subject to recall and is unavailable to accept employment for the above reason, they will
be considered on leave of absence.
c. A Flight Attendant on a voluntary or involuntary furlough will be allowed to work other
employment within the aviation industry.
2. Interim Employment with the Company
A furloughed Flight Attendant seeking alternate employment with the Company may be
considered for such available employment for which they may be qualified.
E.F. PAYMENT FOR UNUSED VACATION
At their option, a Flight Attendant who is furloughed will receive vacation pay for all unused
vacation time to the end of the month preceding their furlough. If the option is not exercised, the
vacation will be carried until the Flight Attendant is recalled from furlough.

-- 194 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
24-1
SECTION 24 - PRISONER AND HOSTAGE
A. BENEFITS FOR FLIGHT ATTENDANTS IN THE EVENT OF TERRORISM OR SABOTAGE
1. Death, Permanent Total Disability, Disfigurement, and Dismemberment Benefits
In the event of:
a. the death of a Flight Attendant resulting from injury or illness incurred during acts of
terrorism or sabotage; or
b. the permanent total disability of a Flight Attendant resulting from injury or illness incurred
during acts of terrorism or sabotage; or
c. Disfigurement and Dismemberment
i. the permanent medical disqualification of a Flight Attendant by the Company,
ii. the complete loss by a Flight Attendant of sight or hearing,
iii. a Flight Attendant incurring any permanent bodily disfigurement that will cause the
Flight Attendant in the judgment of the Company to not meet its appearance standards,
or
iv. the loss of both hands, or both feet, or one hand and one foot, or one hand and sight
of one eye, or one foot and sight of one eye, resulting from illness or injury incurred
during acts of terrorism or sabotage:
The Company shall pay or cause to be paid, subject to the conditions set forth in
Paragraphs A.3 and A.4, five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for death or for the
conditions specified in Paragraphs A.1.b and A.1.c, caused by or resulting from any acts
of terrorism or sabotage or counteraction to such acts of terrorism or sabotage, to such
Flight Attendant if the Flight Attendant is alive, otherwise to their designated beneficiary
under the Company's Group Life Insurance Plan. In no event will more than one lump
sum payment of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) be made per covered Flight
Attendant. "Permanent total disability" shall mean the complete inability of the Flight
Attendant to perform any and every duty pertaining to any occupation or employment for
remuneration or profit for the remainder of the Flight Attendant's life. "Loss", with respect
to sight and hearing, shall mean entire and irrecoverable loss of such sight or hearing;
with respect to hands or feet, loss shall mean actual severance through or above the wrist
or ankle joints. In the event the Flight Attendant is killed, incurs a loss, is permanently
medically disqualified, suffers permanent bodily disfigurement, or becomes permanently
and totally disabled, as provided above, the payments under Paragraph A.1, shall be five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), and such benefits shall be in addition to any
benefits provided in other Company plans and payments made pursuant to State Workers
Compensation Laws.
2. Temporary Occupational Disability Benefits
In the event a Flight Attendant is temporarily disabled due to an injury or illness arising out of
or suffered in connection with acts of terrorism or sabotage while on flight duty or paid layover,
the Company shall pay for the period of disability, up to a maximum of twelve (12) months,
monthly compensation at the rate of pay set forth in Paragraph A.9. Such payment will be
less weekly indemnity benefits received under applicable State Workers Compensation Laws

-- 195 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
24-2
and any payments made under the Long Term Disability Plan. Notwithstanding the provisions
of Sick Leave, Section 9, such Flight Attendant will not be charged sick leave during such
twelve (12) month period.
3. Applicability
The payments provided by the provisions of Paragraph A.1, shall be applicable to any Flight
Attendant only when the conditions set forth in Paragraphs A.1.a, A.1.b, and A.1.c, as
applicable, or the injury or illness which leads to such casualty, occurs as a result of acts of
terrorism or sabotage or military counteraction of any government, agency or organization
while such Flight Attendant is inside or outside the United States, and while the Flight
Attendant is on flight duty or paid layover.
4. Exclusions
Benefits payable under Paragraphs A.1, A.2, A.5, and A.6, shall not be applicable to a Flight
Attendant when death, or a condition set forth in Paragraph A.1.c or A.2, as applicable:
a. is intentionally self-inflicted; or
b. is contracted, suffered or incurred while such Flight Attendant was engaged in a criminal
enterprise, or results from the Flight Attendant having engaged in a criminal enterprise.
5. Workers Compensation Benefits
A Flight Attendant who is killed or injured during acts of terrorism or sabotage while on flight
duty or paid layover will be covered for Workers Compensation benefits as prescribed by the
state or territory in which such Flight Attendant's base station is situated. For a Flight
Attendant who is killed, these benefits shall be in addition to other benefits to which a Flight
Attendant's beneficiaries or representatives may be entitled, such as:
a. Any basic or elected optional life insurance benefits available under the Company's Group
Life Insurance Plan;
b. The death benefits provided under the Company's Retirement Benefit Plan, if applicable;
c. The death benefits available under any Personal Accident policy, if applicable;
d. The death benefits provided under Paragraph A.1.
6. Missing, Internment, Prisoner or Hostage Benefits
a. A Flight Attendant who is missing because of acts of terrorism or sabotage committed
against such Flight Attendant while the Flight Attendant is on flight duty or paid layover,
shall be paid monthly compensation as set forth in Paragraph A.9, for a maximum period
of twelve (12) months after the Flight Attendant’s disappearance or until death is
established, whichever occurs first. When such Flight Attendant has been missing for
twelve (12) months, the Company will aid the beneficiary in obtaining legal proof in order
that death benefits under Company plans (including the Company's Retirement Plan, if
applicable) can be paid, consistent with applicable state law.
b. A Flight Attendant, who is interned or taken prisoner or hostage as a consequence of
terrorism or sabotage while on duty or paid layover shall be paid monthly compensation
as set forth in Paragraph A.9, for the period during which the Flight Attendant is known to

-- 196 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
24-3
the Company to be interned or held prisoner or hostage. Such payments will cease,
however, when such Flight Attendant's release or death is established.
c. When, under the provisions of Paragraph A.6.a or A.6.b, a Flight Attendant has been
missing for a period of twelve (12) months, or in the event no information is received by
the Company for twelve (12) continuous months that an interned, imprisoned or hostage
Flight Attendant is alive, the death benefits provided under Paragraph A.1, shall be paid.
If such Flight Attendant is later found to be alive, compensation as set forth in Paragraph
6.b, will be paid retroactively from the time that monthly payments ceased, less any death
benefits paid under Paragraph A.1, which were paid to the beneficiary, up to the time
released. Any death benefits not recovered per the above offset will be repaid by the
beneficiary to the Company upon its demand.
7. Benefit Assignments
a. The monthly compensation allowable under Paragraph A.6, to a Flight Attendant interned,
missing, held hostage or prisoner, shall be credited to such Flight Attendant on the books
of the Company and shall be disbursed by the Company in accordance with written
directions from her/him. The Company shall require each Flight Attendant to execute and
deliver to the Company a written direction in the form hereinafter set forth. The Company
shall, as soon as practicable, require all Flight Attendants to execute and deliver to the
Company such written directions. The direction referred to shall be in, substantially, the
following form:
"To: American Airlines, Inc.
“You are hereby directed to pay all monthly compensation allowable to me under Section
24.A.6. contained in the current Agreement between American Airlines, Inc. and the
Association of Professional Flight Attendants, while interned, held prisoner or hostage, or
missing, as follows:
Initially, to _________________, ______________________________,
(Name) (Address)
as long as living, and thereafter to _______________________________,
(Name)
_______________________________ as long as living, and thereafter to
(Address)
_________________________, _________________________________,
(Name) (Address)
as long as living.
"The balance, if any, and any amounts accruing after the death or legal determination of
death of all persons named in the above designations shall be held for me or, in the event
of my death before receipt thereof, shall be paid to the legal representative of my estate.
"The foregoing directions may be modified from time to time by letter signed by the
undersigned, and any such modification shall become effective upon receipt of such letter
by the Company.
"Payments made by the Company pursuant to this direction shall fully release the
Company from the obligation of making any further payment with respect thereto.
_____________________________
(Flight Attendant Signature)
Date:_____________ Employee No.____________"

-- 197 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
24-4
b. Any payments due to any Flight Attendant under this provision which are not covered by
a written direction, as above required, or as provided in Paragraph A.1, shall be held by
the Company for such Flight Attendant and, in the event of their death or legal
determination of death, shall be paid to the legal representative of the Flight Attendant’s
estate.
8. Seniority
Flight Attendants shall maintain and continue to accrue all seniority and longevity for pay
purposes during periods in which they are interned, held prisoner or hostage, or missing
because of acts of terrorism or sabotage.
9. Monthly Compensation Definition
"Monthly compensation" as used in Paragraphs A.2, A.6, and, A.7, is defined as the applicable
monthly schedule maximum payable at the Flight Attendant's rate of pay and Operation status
with subsequent negotiated increases to be included. Further, a Flight Attendant receiving
such monthly compensation shall not be treated less favorably than any other Flight Attendant
in that they shall be the recipient of all future negotiated benefits. Paragraph A.9 will have no
effect on payments made under the Company LTD Plan.
10. Relationship With Other Provisions
Any payments made under the provisions of Section 24 will be in lieu of any and all other
payments provided for under the Agreement, except as specifically noted in the provisions of
Section 24.

-- 198 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-1
SECTION 25 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE/APPROVED TIME OFF
A. PERSONAL LEAVE
1. A Flight Attendant may be granted a personal leave of absence without pay for a period not
to exceed one hundred and eighty (180) days. Requests for personal leave and mutually
agreed upon start and end dates shall be in writing. Once granted, a personal leave may only
be canceled by mutual agreement between the Company and the Flight Attendant. A personal
leave may be extended for additional periods not to exceed one hundred and eighty (180)
days when approved in writing by the Company.
2. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a Personal
Leave.
B. VOLUNTARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE (VLOA)
1. When the requirements of the service permit, a Flight Attendant may be granted a Voluntary
Leave of Absence (VLOA) without pay for one (1) bid period. A VLOA shall be offered on a
crew base basis. A VLOA will be available for bid at a crew base and will be awarded in
seniority order as far in advance as possible. The VLOA will be awarded in seniority order to
Lineholders first and then to Reserves in seniority order. The award shall be completed prior
to the bid process or, if not possible, the bid and award may be made part of the monthly bid
process.
2. In the event the Company determines that it is overstaffed for a portion of a bid period the
Company may offer VLOAs for less than one (1) bid period. These leaves shall be
communicated electronically to Flight Attendants and open for a minimum of seventy-two (72)
hours and shall be granted in seniority order after the seventy-two (72) hour posting period
has elapsed. If there are remaining leaves available, they shall be granted on a first-come,
first-serve basis until the staffing has been reduced by the necessary number of Flight
Attendants provided such request is received prior to the opening of PBS.
3. At their option, a Flight Attendant on a VLOA may attend their scheduled training in their
base month. A Flight Attendant on a VLOA will be required to attend their training in their
grace month.
4. A VLOA shall be unpaid but the Flight Attendant shall be treated as if on active status for all
purposes. Once awarded, a VLOA cannot be canceled except by mutual agreement between
the Flight Attendant and the Company.
5. The Company shall either offer all VLOAs in a bid period that release Flight Attendants with
carry over trips on the first day of the new bid period or all VLOAs that obligate Flight
Attendants to be responsible for the carry over trip into the new bid period unless otherwise
relieved of the obligation pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. If the Company makes the
decision to release a Lineholder with carry-over trips on the first day of a bid period, a
Lineholder will have the option of splitting the carry-over trip, if possible, completing the carry-
over trip, or dropping the trip without pay. In such instance, a Reserve will have their days of
availability in the oncoming bid period removed and for purposes of splitting only such days
will be treated as Golden Days.
6. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a VLOA.
C. LEAVE IN LIEU OF FURLOUGH

-- 199 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-2
1. A Leave in Lieu of Furlough without pay will be available to bid at a crew base in lieu of a
reduction of personnel at that crew base in accordance with Reduction in Force, Section 23.
2. The Company will not actively contest claims for unemployment benefits filed by Flight
Attendants accepting a Leave in Lieu of Furlough.
3. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a Leave in Lieu
of Furlough.
D. EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
1. A Flight Attendant requesting an Educational Leave of Absence without pay must specify the
entire period they wish to be on leave. An Educational Leave that has been granted shall not
be canceled by the Company. A Flight Attendant will be allowed to return to active status at
any time during the leave by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the Company.
2. A Flight Attendant requesting an Educational Leave of Absence must provide the Company
with the necessary documentation to support the reason for the leave.
3. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to an Educational
Leave.
E. MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1. The Company shall grant a Flight Attendant a Medical Leave of Absence, upon request, due
to an illness or injury.
2. The Company will require a Flight Attendant requesting a Medical Leave to furnish written
verification from the Flight Attendant’s personal physician confirming their inability to perform
Flight Attendant duties.
3. Prior to returning to duty from Medical Leave, a Flight Attendant will be required to present a
physician’s statement verifying that the Flight Attendant is medically fit to perform all required
Flight Attendant duties.
4. Any dispute about a Flight Attendant’s ability to perform their required duties shall be resolved
using the procedures outlined in Medical Examinations, Section 28.
5. Any Flight Attendant who is on an unpaid Medical Leave as of the effective date of this
Agreement shall be afforded five (5) years from the Agreement effective date, unless she/he
is released to return to active duty and fails to return during such time period.
6.5. Any Flight Attendant who is unable to return to active service from an unpaid Medical Leave
after five (5) consecutive years shall be deemed to have voluntarily resigned from the
Company and their name shall be removed from the seniority list. Removal from the seniority
list, however, shall not be automatic. Instead, the Company, upon request from the Flight
Attendant, shall consider whether an additional period of leave of a specific duration may be
reasonable.
7.6. If eligible according to the terms of the disability program, a Flight Attendant may use disability
benefits while on Medical Leave of Absence. A Flight Attendant will be required to use sick
hours. Use of sick, vacation accrual and disability benefits shall be as provided in Sick Leave,
Section 9; Vacation, Section 8; and Insurance, Retirement, and Other Benefits, Section 26.

-- 200 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-3
8.7. A pregnant Flight Attendant may remain on active status until their personal physician certifies
to the Company that the Flight Attendant is no longer able to perform Flight Attendant duties.
If the Flight Attendant subsequently provides written verification from their physician that they
are not able to perform Flight Attendant duties, the Flight Attendant will be placed on a medical
leave of absence.
9.8. Medical Leaves for elective surgery may not be taken between November 15th and January
6th unless required under FMLA.
10.9. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a Medical
Leave.
F. FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE (FMLA)
1. A Flight Attendant who is eligible and qualifies for a leave of absence under the Family Medical
Leave Act (FMLA) or applicable state law, whichever is greater, shall be granted a leave of
absence.
2. A Flight Attendant will be required to use their sick hours while on FMLA for their own illness.
At the Flight Attendant’s option, they may use vacation that is or may be scheduled during the
year while on FMLA for their own illness. While on FMLA, the use of vacation while caring for
a family member will be in accordance with Company policy.
3. To the extent permitted by law, FMLA shall run concurrently with other approved leaves.
4. A Flight Attendant on a FMLA shall receive all benefits as provided by the FMLA or applicable
state law.
5. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a FMLA.
6. Protected time equivalent to FMLA shall be provided in cases involving a Domestic Partner
(same and opposite sex) who meets the eligibility requirements, as defined in the Company’s
Domestic Partner Benefits Program.
G. MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE
1. The status of a pregnant Flight Attendant shall be as provided in Paragraph E.7.
2. A Flight Attendant who does not qualify for a Medical Leave of Absence shall, upon request
at any time during the pregnancy, be granted an unpaid Personal Leave of Absence. If the
Flight Attendant subsequently provides written verification from their physician that they are
not able to perform Flight Attendant duties, the Flight Attendant shall be placed on a Medical
Leave of Absence.
3. After the birth of a child or termination of pregnancy, a Flight Attendant may request and shall
be granted an unpaid Maternity/Paternity Leave of Absence for up to one hundred and eighty
(180) calendar days. This leave shall commence upon the date of birth or termination and
shall continue until no later than one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days after that date.
Additional leave will be considered by the Company due to extenuating circumstances.
4. If eligible according to the terms of the disability program, a Flight Attendant may use disability
benefits while on Maternity Leave. A Flight Attendant will be required to use sick hours. Use
of sick, vacation accrual and disability benefits shall be as provided in Sick Leave, Section 9,
Vacation, Section 8, and Insurance, Retirement, and Other Benefits, Section 26.

-- 201 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-4
5. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a
Maternity/Paternity Leave.
H. ADOPTION LEAVE
1. A Flight Attendant who legally adopts a child shall be granted a leave of absence. Such leave
will commence on the date that the Flight Attendant takes custody of the child, or, in the event
travel is required, when the Flight Attendant begins travel to obtain custody of the child and
will continue until a court of competent jurisdiction issues or refused to issue a decree
declaring the Flight Attendant as the legal parent of the child. Once a decree is issued, an
additional one hundred and eighty (180) days of leave will be granted at the Flight Attendant’s
option. Additional leave will be considered by the Company due to extenuating
circumstances.
2. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to an Adoption
Leave.
I. UNION LEAVE
1. The Company shall grant a Union Leave of Absence without pay to a Flight Attendant who is
elected or appointed to a position with APFA provided the APFA remains the exclusive
bargaining agent for the employees covered under this Agreement. A Flight Attendant granted
leave under this Paragraph shall continue to accrue seniority and shall return to duty subject
to Seniority, Section 20.
2. A Flight Attendant on Union Leave shall be paid directly by the APFA and shall not be covered
by the flight pay loss provisions of Union Business, Section 32.
3. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a Union Leave.
J. MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1. A Flight Attendant who receives orders to report to the military service of the United States
will be granted a Military Leave of Absence without pay. The duration of the leave, including
reserve duty, and the Flight Attendant’s reemployment rights will be governed by applicable
statutes. Flight Attendants on Military Leave will be treated no less favorably than as provided
in Corporate Policy.
2. In the case of a temporary disability which makes it impossible to return to active flight status
within ninety (90) calendar days after discharge, special arrangements shall be made by the
Company and the APFA for an appropriate extension of time, not less than that permitted for
a Medical Leave of Absence.
3. A Flight Attendant requesting short-term weekend military duty will do so prior to the beginning
of the bid month. Where such prior notification is given, the Flight Attendant will have the
following options:
a. To protect scheduled days off, the Flight Attendant may request a leave of absence to
participate in scheduled weekend military reserve training. However, the Flight
Attendant’s minimum monthly pay guarantee will be prorated to reflect the additional time
off if their credited flight time does not exceed their minimum monthly guarantee;
b. To protect the minimum monthly pay guarantee, a Flight Attendant may choose to move
any scheduled days off in the bid period to cover the scheduled weekend reserve training,
upon notification to Crew Scheduling. The days off must be in accordance with the

-- 202 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-5
parameters in Reserve Duty, Section 12;
c. A Flight Attendant may use vacation for short term weekend military duty.
4. The chart in Paragraph O contains additional rules and benefits that apply to a Military Leave.
K. GENERAL
1. A Flight Attendant desiring to take a leave of absence should notify the Company by submitting
a completed leave of absence form, available on the Company Intranet. This form should
include, but not limited to, the type of leave desired, when the leave should commence, and
the expected duration of the leave. Approval or denial of such leave shall be made in writing
and sent by U.S. Mail or another verifiable method, including an electronic method as soon as
possible after the date on which the request was received by the Company.
2. A request for an extension of a leave of absence shall be made in writing as above and state
the expected duration of the extension. The disposition of the request shall be made as soon
as possible. A Flight Attendant will be notified of the disposition of their request by U.S. Mail
or another verifiable method, including an electronic method.
3. A Flight Attendant on a leave of absence who continues to be paid by utilizing sick leave
and/or scheduled vacation will continue to have access to insurance benefits at the active
rate, sick and vacation accrual. Pass travel privileges shall be pursuant to Company policy.
4. A Flight Attendant who elects to utilize their scheduled vacation days while on a paid Leave
of Absence cannot split their vacation group. The Flight Attendant shall be paid for the entire
vacation group utilized.
5. Other Employment While on Leave
a. A Flight Attendant commencing other employment or previously engaged in other
employment while on FMLA, Personal Leave, Maternity/Paternity Leave, VLOA, Leave in
Lieu of Furlough, Leave in Lieu of Crew Base Displacement, Educational Leave, Maternity
Leave, Adoption Leave, Military Leave or Union Leave shall not be required to obtain
permission of the Company.
b. For leaves other than those specified in Paragraph K.5.a, the Company shall notify a Flight
Attendant requesting such leave, in writing, of the requirement to obtain permission to
commence or continue other employment. When such Flight Attendant requests
permission to commence or continue other employment, the Company shall respond in
writing granting permission or stating the reasons for denial.
c. The Company shall not arbitrarily deny a request for permission to engage in other
employment while on a leave of absence pursuant to Paragraph K.5.b. Permission may
be denied in the case of a Flight Attendant on a Medical or Occupational Injury/Illness
leave of absence where the other employment is not consistent with the Flight Attendant’s
claim of being unable to perform their Flight Attendant duties or the other employment
would impede or otherwise interfere with recovery and return to duty.
d. A Flight Attendant on a Voluntary Furlough and a Flight Attendant on an Involuntary
Furlough will be allowed to engage in other employment within the aviation industry.
6. Return from a Leave of Absence
a. A Flight Attendant on a leave of absence shall provide the Company with at least fifteen

-- 203 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-6
(15) days’ notice of the date they intend to return to active status. Upon providing such
notification, the Company shall immediately arrange for all administrative details, e.g.,
fingerprinting, background checks, and I.D., if applicable, to be completed and arranged
for Recurrent training, extended Recurrent or new hire, as applicable. For Recurrent
training, the class must be scheduled to begin within the first seven (7) days of the Flight
Attendant’s return date. If a Flight Attendant on an extended leave of absence requires
training longer than Recurrent training (e.g., extended requalification training) the
Company shall place the Flight Attendant in the next class. Such class start date shall
not exceed thirty-one (31) days from the Flight Attendant’s return date. If a Flight
Attendant on an extended leave of absence is required by the FAA to attend new hire
training, they will be placed in the next new hire class, the start date of which will not
exceed ninety (90) days from the Flight Attendant’s return date. If the applicable
aforementioned time periods have elapsed and no training class has been made available
to the Flight Attendant, and/or the Company fails to complete administrative details, the
Company shall then be responsible for providing pay protection based on the Flight
Attendant’s six (6) month pay average or if the Flight Attendant misses trips, pay
protection based on trips missed. A Flight Attendant requesting an alternative training
date outside the seven (7) day window will waive any pay protection. If required, a Flight
Attendant shall report for assigned drug testing and fingerprinting.
b. A Flight Attendant returning from a leave of absence who fails to take required training
shall be placed on inactive status until such training is completed. A Flight Attendant
returning from a leave of absence who fails to take Recurrent training for the second
scheduled class, except under extenuating circumstances, shall be deemed a voluntary
resignation from the Company and the Flight Attendant’s name shall be removed from the
seniority list.
c. A Flight Attendant who does not need to take required training and who fails to return to
active service at the end of a leave of absence shall be deemed a voluntary resignation
from the Company and the Flight Attendant’s name shall be removed from the seniority
list, except under extenuating circumstances.
7. Options regarding use of vacation while on a leave of absence will be as provided for in
Vacation, Section 8.
8. A Flight Attendant’s eligibility for benefits will recommence immediately upon return from a
leave of absence, i.e., commencement of training and/or completion of administrative
requirements as outlined in Paragraph K.6.a.
9. A Flight Attendant returning from a leave of absence may be required to perform physical
limitations testing as required by medical personnel designated by the Company. Any dispute
resulting from such examination will be settled pursuant to Medical Examinations, Section 28.
A Flight Attendant may be required to submit a physician’s statement upon return from a
Medical Leave as specified in Paragraph E.3.
10. While on a leave of absence, contributions will continue on any 401(k)/defined contribution
eligible compensation received by the Flight Attendant unless the Flight Attendant changes
the contribution level in accordance with Company policy.
L. APPROVED TIME OFF
1. Bereavement Days
a. Upon notification to an Inflight Manager, a Flight Attendant will be granted up to three (3)
days off when there is a death in the Flight Attendant’s immediate family.

-- 204 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-7
b. Immediate family shall include a Flight Attendant’s spouse, domestic partner as defined
in Company policy, children, step-children, grandchildren, parents, step-parents,
grandparents, brothers, sisters, legal guardian, and spouse/domestic partner’s family
(parents, step-parents, brothers, sisters, and grandparents) or relative who actually
resides with the Flight Attendant. Bereavement will also be granted in the event of death
of any member of the employee’s household residing at the same address. If the
Company policy provides for more individuals than those listed above, Flight Attendants
shall be provided Bereavement Leave for such individuals in addition to the individuals
listed above.
c. Bereavement Days must be taken within thirty (30) days of the date of the death, absent
mitigating circumstances.
d. A Flight Attendant shall receive four (4) hours pay and credit for three (3) consecutive
days.
e. Upon request, the Company shall have the discretion to grant additional days off or to
grant days off for an individual other than those stated in Paragraph L.1.b, without pay.
Such time off will reduce a Flight Attendant’s guarantee by the applicable prorated
amount. If such days are granted, the Flight Attendant at their option may use vacation
days.
f. The Company shall arrange on-line positive space pass transportation to attend the
funeral or memorial service/family gathering for a Flight Attendant and their eligible
dependents, in accordance with Company policy.
2. Personal Day Policy
a. A Flight Attendant is entitled to two (2) Personal Days per rolling twelve (12) month period
to be used only in the event of an unexpected emergency. A Flight Attendant may request
use of their Personal Days by making a verbal request to Crew Scheduling with a follow
up call to the Flight Attendant’s supervisor.
b. The initial Company’s decision to award Personal Days will be based on coverage. The
Company will not require verification of the emergency. The Personal Days will be unpaid.
A Reserve will have four (4) hours and ten (10) minutes (thirty (30) day month) or three (3)
hours and fifty-six (56) minutes (thirty-one (31) day month) deducted from their guarantee.
c. If the initial decision is to not grant a Personal Day request based on coverage, the Flight
Attendant may contact their Inflight Manager/Operations Coordinator, Inflight to seek
approval of the Personal Day request. The Inflight Manager/Operations Coordinator,
Inflight will approve the request if the circumstances of the unexpected emergency
warrants a Personal Day. The Company will not require verification of the emergency.
d. After the two (2) Personal Days are exhausted, the Company maintains the discretion to
grant additional days consistent with the current practice regarding Personal Days. For
any such additional days, the Flight Attendant must contact their Inflight Manager . These
additional days will be unpaid. The Company may require verification of the additional
emergency.
M. BENEFITS

-- 205 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-8
1. Flight Attendants are eligible for COBRA continuation after the expiration of the employer
contribution. The COBRA continuation period shall not commence until the expiration of any
employer provided medical benefits.
2. If a Flight Attendant uses sick or vacation at the commencement of a leave of absence, the
timelines in the chart below will commence on the first unpaid day following the paid sick or
vacation days.
N. MEDICAL RETURN TO WORK CLEARANCE (MOVED FROM SECTION 37.P)
The Company will post and keep current on the Company’s intranet the method and availability of
medical return to work clearance.
N.O. UNPAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE CHART
Type of
Leave
Occ
Seniority
(bidding)
Class/Long
Seniority
(pay & vc)
Sick and
Vacation
Accrual
Basic
Medical
Life
Insurance
Travel
Privileges
Length of
Leave
Personal
Leave
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(30 days)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
Yes, full
rates
(duration)*
Yes, full
rates
(duration)*
No*
Not to
exceed 180
days, but
may be
extended
upon
approval
Voluntary
Leave of
Absence
(Bid Leave)
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(duration)
Yes, active
rates
(duration)
Yes, active
rates
(duration)
Yes
Up to 1 bid
period; can
be
consecutive
Leave in
Lieu of
Furlough
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(duration)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
In
accordance
with
Company
policy*
In
accordance
with
Company
policy*
Yes Varies
Educational Yes
(duration)
Yes
(30 days)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
Yes, full
rates
(duration)*
Yes, full
rates
(duration)*
No* Varies
Unpaid
Medical /
Medical
Maternity /
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(30 days)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
Yes, active
rates (up to
12 months
from
unpaid,
then
COBRA)*
Yes, active
rates up to
12 months
from
unpaid,
then full
rate
conversion*
Medical -
No*, w/
exception:
see unpaid
FMLA
Maternity-
Yes
As
medically
required; 5
year
maximum

-- 206 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-9
Type of
Leave
Occ
Seniority
(bidding)
Class/Long
Seniority
(pay & vc)
Sick and
Vacation
Accrual
Basic
Medical
Life
Insurance
Travel
Privileges
Length of
Leave
Unpaid IOD Yes
(duration)
Yes
(duration)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
Yes, active
rates (up to
12 months
from
unpaid,
then
COBRA)*
Yes, active
rates up to
12 months
from
unpaid,
then full
rate
conversion*
No,* w/
exception:
see unpaid
FMLA
As
medically
required; 5
year
maximum
Unpaid
FMLA
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(duration)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
Yes, active
rates
(duration)
Yes, active
rates
(duration)
Yes,
including
unpaid IOD
and
Medical
Leaves
that run
concurrent
with FMLA*
Up to 12
weeks
Personal
Maternity
(JCBA
Section
25.G)
Paternity,
Adoption
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(30 days)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
Yes, full
rates
(duration)*
Yes, full
rates*
(duration)
Yes*
180 day
max from
date of birth
or in
accordance
with 25.H.1
for adoption
Union
Leave
Yes
(duration)
Yes
(duration)
Yes, if
available
for 15 days
Yes, active
rates
(duration)*
Yes, active
rates
(duration)*
Yes* Varies
Military Yes
(duration)
Yes
(duration)
Yes, if
available
for 15
days, but in
no case
less than
required by
USERRA
Yes, active
rates
(duration in
accordance
with
Company
policy, but
in no case
less than
required by
USERRA)
Yes, active
rates
(duration in
accordance
with
Company
policy, but
in no case
less than
required by
USERRA)
Yes,
(duration in
accordance
with
Company
policy, but
in no case
less than
required by
USERRA)
5 years, in
accordance
with
USERRA
Notes:
Full rates = Full cost of coverage including the employee and employer contributions
Active rates = Both the Company and the employee pay the same portions of the premiums as if the
employee were on active payroll
*Subject to change based on Company policy

-- 207 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
25-10
Full Rate Conversion - Policy converts to an individual policy with MetLife at the rates MetLife provides
If leaves are consecutive (no paid status between leaves), with the exception of VLOA's, the benefit period
begins on the first day of the first leave.

-- 208 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-1
SECTION 26 - INSURANCE, RETIREMENT, AND OTHER BENEFITS
The following represents the terms of the medical and life coverage for eligible active Flight
Attendants under The American Airlines, Inc. Group Life and Health & Welfare Benefits Plan for
Active Employees of American Airlines, Inc. (“Medical Plan”) (with said medical coverage being
referred to herein as “Active Medical Coverage”) and, Flight Attendants retiring on or after November
1, 2012 under The Group Life and Health Benefits Plan for Retirees of American Airlines, Inc.
(“Retiree Medical Plan”)(with said medical coverage being referred to herein as “Retiree Medical
Coverage”).
This coverage replaces and supersedes the previous medical and dental plan provisions.
A. LIFE INSURANCE
For an employee whose base monthly salary is one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) or over,
their basic coverage shall be two (2) times their base annual salary taken to the next higher multiple
of one hundred dollars ($100), but not more than seventy thousand dollars ($70,000).
B. MEDICAL AND DENTAL PLAN
Active Flight Attendant Medical Coverage shall continue in effect according to the effective as soon
as administratively practicable following provisions: ratification:
1. The Company will offer two (2) medical options in the Medical Plan subject to Paragraph 9: (i)
the Standard option; and, (ii) the Core medical option which is a Health Savings Account-
compatible medical option. The Company reserves the right to amend the Medical Plan at
the Company’s sole discretion, with the exception of:
a. The Standard medical option design features in the Chart of Active Medical Coverage
Option Design Features in Paragraph B.9;
b. The employee contribution methodology for the Standard and Core medical options
described in Paragraphs B.4 and B.6;
c. Changes noted in Paragraph B.5;
d.c. The right to purchase dental coverage on similar terms as the “Plus” or “Basic” dental
plans in effect for the 2020 plan year. provided to eligible Flight Attendants prior to
September 12, 2012.
2. To the extent the Company is offering the High Cost Coverage Value medical option in any
plan year to employees, employees eligible to enroll in the Standard or Core medical options
will be eligible to enroll in the High Cost Coverage Value medical option. The Company
reserves the right to amend or terminate the High Cost Coverage Value medical option, at its
sole discretion.
3. To the extent feasible, advance notice of material Medical Plan changes will be provided to
the APFA prior to implementation. At least thirty (30) days prior to the distribution of the Active
Medical Coverage annual enrollment materials, the Company will provide the APFA with a
copy of the data, assumptions and methodologies used to calculate employee contributions
under the Standard and Core medical options.
4. Aggregate employee contributions for the Standard and Core medical options for 2015 will be
twenty percent (20%), and 2016 and thereafter will be twenty-one percent (21%) of the total

-- 209 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-2
projected cost of each forecasted year of healthcare expenses for these two (2) medical
options (which include medical/prescription and administrative expenses) as calculated by the
Company. Employee contributions for the Standard and Core medical options will increase
with medical inflation with employee contributions set as explained above. The High Cost
Coverage Value medical option inflation and employee contributions will be calculated
separately from the Standard and Core medical options.
5. The Standard medical option annual In-Network deductible will be increase by fifty dollars
($50.00) in 2017 until the In-Network deductible reaches eight hundred and fifty dollars
($850.00) for single coverage and the family In-Network deductible will increase by one
hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) in 2017 until it reaches two thousand five hundred and fifty
dollars ($2,550) for family coverage.
6. Chart of Coverage Tiers:
Current Coverage Tiers New Coverage Tiers Contribution
Multiplier
Employee Only Employee Only 1.0
Employee + 1 Employee + Spouse/Domestic Partner 2.6
Employee + Child(ren) 1.8
Employee + 2 or more Employee + Family 3.5
The multiplier for the New Coverage Tiers is based on the Employee Only coverage tier.
7. The $150, $250, $500 and $1,000 standard medical options in the May 1, 2003 Collective
Bargaining Agreement are eliminated. All of the provisions of previous arbitrations and the
Carey Award dated December 3, 1991 that relates to the Medical Plan, including the inflation
formula described therein, are also eliminated.
8. Legacy US Airways Flight Attendants hired prior to the date of ratification will maintain
coverage under the US Airways Medical and Dental Plans through December 31, 2015.
Effective January 1, 2016, the US Airways Medical and Dental Plans (PPO100/80, PPO90/70,
PPO80/60, Out-of-Area 100, Out-of-Area 90, Out-of-Area 80, PPO Dental and Out-of-Area
Dental), including the inflation formulas therein, are also eliminated.
9.7. New employees eligible for healthcare coverage will default to the Core medical option for
Employee Only coverage on their eligibility date, unless the employee waives coverage or
elects another option or level during the initial enrollment period.
10.8. To the extent the Company is offering incentives in any plan year to employees for
participating in a wellness program, employees enrolled in the Standard and Core medical
options will be eligible for those incentives provided they meet the criteria (as established by
the Company at its sole discretion) for earning the incentive.
11.9. Chart of Active Medical Coverage Option Design Features:
Standard Core
Current Plan Design Features
Health Spending Accounts HRA
In Network Deductible (Single/Family) $850/$2550 800/$2,400
Out of Network Deductible (Single/Family) $3,000/$9,000
Coinsurance (In/Out)** 20%/40%
In Network Out of Pocket Max
(Single/Family)
$2,000/$5,000

-- 210 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-3
Out of Network Out of Pocket Max
(Single/Family)
$6,000/$15,000
Primary Care Physician Copay (In
Network only)
$30*
Specialist Copay (In/Out) 20%/40%
Retail Clinics Copay (In/Out) 20%/40%
Preventive Care $0
Emergency Room Ded/Coins/$100 CoPay
Pharmacy (Retail)
Generic 20% ($10 min/$40 max)
Formulary Brand 30% ($30 min/$100 max)
Non-Formulary Brand 50% ($45 min/$150 max)
Pharmacy (Mail)
Generic 20% ($5 min/$80 max)
Formulary Brand 30% ($60 min/$200 max)
Non-Formulary Brand 50% ($90 min/$300 max)
2024 2015 Monthly Contributions
EE Only $154.11 85.35 $95.89 74.40
EE + Spouse/DP $400.70 221.92 $249.34 193.44
EE + Child(ren) $277.41 153.63 $172.62 133.92
EE + Family $539.42 298.73 $335.65 260.40
*Deductibles and co-insurance apply if provider is out of network.
** (In/Out) when used in the chart means In-Network and Out-of-Network, respectively.
The following provisions apply to the Standard medical option:
a. Deductibles do not apply toward Out of Pocket maximum;
b. Medical coinsurance applies towards Out of Pocket maximums;
c. Pharmacy coinsurances do not apply towards deductibles, but do apply towards Out of
Pocket maximums;
d. Co-pays do not apply to the Deductible.
12.10. The Company will also retain the right to amend any provision in the Medical Plan for the
purpose of complying with applicable laws and regulations.
13. In the event the Company determines that the Standard or Core design options provided for
in this Agreement (each an “Option”) would be or become subject to an excise tax or other
penalty included in The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) or any excise
tax or penalty which may replace the PPACA, under applicable law, (and thus become an
“Affected Option”), the Company will meet and confer in good faith in order to reach an
agreement with the Union concerning the minimum modification or modifications to the
Affected Option necessary to avoid application of the excise tax or other penalty. The
Company shall provide to the Union information that the Union reasonably requests, including
actuarial reports, necessary for the Union’s design and consideration of such modifications.
Unless otherwise agreed, any agreed modification shall become effective at the time the
excise tax or penalty would become applicable in respect of the Affected Option (the “Affected
Option Date”).
If the Company and the Union are unable to agree on modifications necessary to avoid the
application of the excise tax or other penalty on the Affected Option within ninety (90) days

-- 211 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-4
after the initial meeting, the parties will select Arbitrator Bloch who will determine the
modifications to the design of the Affected Option that will become applicable. The authority
of Arbitrator Bloch is expressly limited to establishing those modifications to the design of the
Affected Option that will ensure that no excise tax or other penalty will apply. If Arbitrator
Bloch determines that no reasonably practical modification to the Affected Option can
guarantee that no excise tax or other penalty will apply, the Company shall have the right to
terminate the availability of the Affected Option to the Flight Attendants. If, under the
preceding sentence, the Company has terminated or would have the right to terminate the
availability to the Flight Attendants of the Standard and/or Core Option, the arbitrator will be
empowered to designate an alternative Option design (a “New Option”) that is available from
the Company provider and that replicates the provisions of the Core Option to the greatest
possible extent without causing the New Option to become subject to any excise tax or other
penalty. In the event that the arbitrator has not issued a determination prior to the excise tax
or penalty becoming due or if such penalty or excise tax is otherwise owed for any reason,
notwithstanding any contrary provision of law, the Company shall be permitted to implement
such modifications to the design of the Affected Option as it considers to be necessary to
avoid the excise tax or penalty. The Company shall have a reasonable period of time following
the issuance of the arbitrator’s determination to implement the New Option. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the provisions of Paragraph B shall not be effective if, after the effective date of
this Agreement, the Company enters into any new or amended collective bargaining
agreement having a term of three (3) years or more with any union group that does not contain
a provision substantially similar to this Paragraph.
If any Option is modified or eliminated pursuant to Paragraph B, the parties will meet and
confer to determine how the savings, if any, from such modifications will accrue to Flight
Attendants. The avoidance of any excise tax that would have otherwise been applied will not
be considered in the calculation of any savings. If the parties cannot agree on whether cost
savings exist or how to distribute said savings, the matter may be referred to an arbitrator as
specified by the process in this Paragraph. The arbitrator’s authority shall be limited to the
issue of determining whether such savings exist and, if so, how such savings are to be
distributed. The arbitrator shall have no other authority, and in no event shall the arbitrator
order modifications to or reinstitution of a plan.
14.11. Flight Attendants will be required to timely pay for all benefits, including Flexible Spending
Account contributions, in order to maintain coverage, including while on a Leave of Absence,
through payroll deduction, the direct bill process or other collection process as applicable.
C. DISABILITY COVERAGE
The Company agrees to offer, at the employee’s expense, an Optional Short Term Disability Plan,
a Long Term Disability Plan and Optional Voluntary Personal Accident Insurance (VPAI).
D. RETIREE HEALTH CARE
Retiree Medical Coverage for Flight Attendants
(Including LAA Retiring On or After November 1, 2012 and LUS Retiring On or After January 1,
2016)
1. Notwithstanding any other collective bargaining agreement provisions, and all other
agreements, past practices, and arbitration awards between the parties, the Company is not
required to maintain, fund, or provide for retiree medical or retiree life insurance benefits.
2. Retiree Medical Coverage For Flight Attendants Ages 55 through 64
(Including LAA Retiring On or After November 1, 2012 and LUS Retiring On or After January
1, 2016)

-- 212 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-5
Flight Attendants retiring on or after age fifty-five (55) and through age sixty-four (64) will have
access to a Company-sponsored retiree medical option. Retiree contribution rates for this
coverage will be one hundred percent (100%) of projected annual expenses (which includes
administrative expenses) using data, assumptions, and methodologies for calculating future
retiree healthcare costs. Although it is the Company’s intention to continue to make available
access to medical coverage for retirees from age fifty-five (55) through age sixty-four (64), the
Company reserves the right to modify, amend, or terminate the Retiree Medical Plan at any
time.
3. Retiree Medical Coverage For Flight Attendants Age 65 and Older
(Including LAA Retiring On or After November 1, 2012 and LUS Retiring On or After January
1, 2016)
Retiree Medical Coverage shall cease when the retired Flight Attendant attains age sixty-five
(65). Retirees age sixty-five (65) and over will be offered access to purchase, at the retiree’s
expense, a guaranteed issue Medicare supplement plan through a third party administrator,
to the extent available.
4. To the extent feasible, at least thirty (30) days prior to the distribution of the Retiree Medical
Coverage annual enrollment materials, the Company will provide the APFA with a copy of the
data, assumptions and methodologies used to calculate the medical inflation rate and retiree
contributions under the Retiree Medical Coverage.
E. RETIREE FLIGHT ATTENDANT LIFE INSURANCE
Retiree life insurance benefits are discontinued for Flight Attendants (LAA retiring on and after
November 1, 2012 and LUS retiring on and after January 1, 2016).
F.E. NON-INCORPORATION
The Medical Plan and the Retiree Medical Plan are not incorporated in this Agreement.
G.F. REPLACEMENT RETIREMENT PLAN
All eligible Flight Attendant employees will participate in the American Airlines, Inc. 401(k) Plan
(“American 401(k) Plan”), a tax qualified, defined contribution retirement plan under Section 401(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”), with a cash or deferred arrangement that qualifies under
Section 401(k) of the Code, that complies with the requirements of Section 404(c) of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as by amended (“ERISA”), or an equivalent plan.
1. Effective for pay received on or after November 1, 2012, The Company, subject to any laws
limiting the amount of benefit which can be contributed to or accrued under a plan qualified
under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time,
and its regulations, will provide contributions to individual flight attendant accounts under the
American 401(k) Plan. $uper $aver – An American Airlines, Inc. 401(k) Capital Accumulation
Plan. (“$uper $aver Plan”), a defined contribution plan, or equivalent plan as follows
2. Following the DOS, but no earlier than July 1, 2015, the US Airways, Inc. Employee Savings
Plan ("ESP") will either be merged with the $uper $aver Plan or the Flight Attendant accounts
in the ESP will be spun-off and transferred to the $uper $aver Plan, as determined in the sole
discretion of the Company.
3.2. Flight Attendants shall be auto-enrolled at an Employee Before-tax Elective Contribution rate
of three percent (3%) of Compensation, as defined in the American 401(k) Plan. Auto-
enrollment will occur as soon as administratively feasible but not less than thirty (30) days

-- 213 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-6
following the Flight Attendant’s hire date.
a. Effective November 1, 2012, existing Flight Attendants on the American Airlines System
Seniority List as of November 1, 2012, who do not have a $uper $aver Plan contribution
election on file will $uper $aver Plan.
b. Subject to Paragraph G.1, Flight Attendants on the US Airways System Seniority List as
of the DOS who do not have a ESP contribution election on file on that date, shall be auto-
enrolled at an Employee Before-tax Elective Contribution rate of three percent (3%) of
Compensation as defined in the ESP, as soon as administratively feasible following the
DOS.
c. Flight Attendants hired at American Airlines on or after November 1, 2012, shall be auto-
enrolled at an Employee Before-tax Elective Contribution rate of three percent (3%) of
Compensation, as defined in the $uper $aver Plan. Subject to Paragraph G.1, Flight
Attendants hired at US Airways on or after DOS shall be auto-enrolled at an Employee
Before-tax Elective Contribution rate of three percent (3%) of Compensation, as defined
in the ESP.
d. Flight Attendants on the American Airlines System Seniority List as of November 1, 2012,
who already have a $uper $aver Plan contribution election on file as of the date they would
otherwise be automatically enrolled.
e. Subject to Section 1 above, Flight Attendants on the US Airways System Seniority List as
of the DOS who have an ESP contribution election on file on the DOS will remain enrolled
in the ESP and their previous election will remain in place.
4.3. For pay received from DOS through December 31, 2018, Flight Attendants on the American
Airlines System Seniority List as of April 12, 2012 (“2012 Seniority List Flight Attendants”)
Flight Attendants shall receive the following Company Contributions for pay received each
payment date during the period:
a. 2012 Seniority List Flight Attendants under forty (40) years old – five and one-half percent
(5.5%) of their Eligible Compensation;
b. 2012 Seniority List Flight Attendants forty to forty-nine (40 to 49) years old – six and three-
quarters percent (6.75%) of their Eligible Compensation;
c. 2012 Seniority List Flight Attendants fifty (50) years old and older – nine and nine-tenths
percent (9.9%) of their Eligible Compensation;
d. 2012 Seniority List Flight Attendant’s age for the purpose of determining Company
Contributions during the period January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2018 shall be
determined as of her/his birthday immediately preceding the date the Eligible
Compensation is received.
e. For pay received on or after January 1, 2019, 2012 Seniority List Flight Attendants shall
receive for each payment date:
f.a. Company Non-Elective Contributions in an amount equal to five three percent (5%) (3%)
of the Flight Attendant’s Eligible Compensation; plus,
g.b. Employer Matching Contributions in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of
the a 2012 Seniority List Flight Attendant’s Employee Before-tax Contributions and

-- 214 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-7
Employee Designated Roth Contributions up to a maximum Employer Matching
Contribution equal to four two and one-half percent (4%) (2.5%) of the their Eligible
Compensation;
h.c. however, under no circumstance will the total amount contributed by the Company exceed
nine five and one-half percent (9%) (5.5%) of the 2012 Seniority List Flight Attendant’s
Eligible Compensation determined on a year-to-date basis.
5. For pay received after DOS, eligible Flight Attendants who are not 2012 Seniority List Flight
Attendants shall receive the following Company Contributions for pay received each payment
date:
a. Company Non-Elective Contributions in an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the
Flight Attendant’s Eligible Compensation; plus,
b. Employer Matching Contributions in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of
the Flight Attendant’s Employee Before-tax Contributions and Employee Designated Roth
Contributions up to a maximum Employer Matching Contribution equal to two and one-
half percent (2.5%) of the Eligible Compensation;
c. however, under no circumstance will the total amount contributed by the Company exceed
five and one-half percent (5.5%) of the Flight Attendant’s Eligible Compensation
determined on a year-to-date basis.
6.4. The Company reserves the right to amend the American 401(k) $uper $aver Plan and ESP at
the Company’s sole discretion. For avoidance of doubt, the Company will also retain the right
to amend any provision in the American 401(k) $uper $aver Plan and ESP for the purpose of
complying with applicable laws and regulations.
7.5. The American 401(k) $uper $aver Plan is not incorporated in this Agreement.
G. RETIREE SICK BANK OPTIONS
1. Upon retirement, pursuant to Company policy, a Flight Attendant at their election will be paid
eight dollars and sixty-five cents ($8.65) per hour for accrued sick leave in their sick bank, or
credited to a notional HRA subject to the provisions of Paragraph G.3 below. If a Flight
Attendant does not timely notify the Company of their intent to retire in accordance with
Paragraph G.2.b below, then the employee will be paid out their sick leave accrual hours as
outlined in this Paragraph. In no case shall an eligible Flight Attendant retiree be paid out or
credited for more than the maximum sick leave accrual specified in Sick Leave, Section 9.
2. The Company shall establish a Retiree Health Reimbursement Arrangement (“RHRA”) for
eligible APFA-represented Flight Attendant retirees who:
a. Meet the retirement criteria of the 65-Point Plan or equivalent policy and retire from the
Company;
and
b. Give the Company at least four (4) months’ advance notice of the Flight Attendant’s intent
to retire.

-- 215 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
26-8
3. For such eligible Flight Attendant retiree, the Company will credit to a notional RHRA account,
the Company will credit the value of the eligible retiree’s accumulated unused sick leave hours
at the time of retirement multiplied by fifty percent (50%) of the hourly base wage rate at the
time of retirement. The RHRA account credits may be used for qualified retiree medical
expenses for any qualified retiree medical plan. The RHRA account credits may only be used
to reimburse the retiree for unreimbursed, substantiated, qualified medical expenses of the
retiree and/or eligible dependents up to the retiree’s RHRA account credit balance.
4. The RHRA must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. The Company will be
responsible for drafting and maintaining the RHRA plan document(s) and will have discretion
over all plan-related items not addressed in the CBA. The Company shall have the right to
amend any provision of the RHRA plan that is required by applicable law or is necessary to
maintain the tax qualified status of the plan.

-- 216 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
27-1
SECTION 27 - INJURY ON DUTY (IOD)
A. A Flight Attendant who becomes ill or injured as a result of an occupational incident shall receive
Workers’ Compensation benefits in accordance with individual State laws.
B. The Company shall pay protect a Flight Attendant who suffers an occupational illness or injury for
the greater of their scheduled or actual credit hours per Compensation, Section 3, for the duty
period in which the illness or injury occurs provided such occupational illness or injury claim is
approved by the designated Worker’s Compensation insurance provider.
C. A Flight Attendant will use their accrued sick leave hours and scheduled vacation. If sick leave
hours are exhausted, they may use vacation that is or may be scheduled during the year in order
to receive pay for trip(s) or reserve days which were scheduled to occur during the statutory waiting
period before Workers’ Compensation benefits may begin. Trip(s) are based on the Flight
Attendant’s projected line as of the commencement of the statutory waiting period. The waiting
period will be otherwise unpaid. To the extent the Flight Attendant receives retroactive payments
of Workers’ Compensation benefits for the statutory waiting period, they will be required to
reimburse the Company for the sick leave and vacation pay and the Flight Attendant’s sick leave
and vacation banks will be credited accordingly.
D. SALARY CONTINUANCE
1. A Flight Attendant who is receiving Workers’ Compensation benefits may also receive salary
continuance in accordance with Paragraph D.2 or D.3, until such time as they are released
for duty. To be eligible for salary continuance, the Flight Attendant must select a physician
from the Preferred Provider Network (PPN) unless; (i) the Flight Attendant is based in a state
where the Company chooses not to participate in a PPN; (ii) in a state that does not have a
PPN; or (iii) the Flight Attendant’s primary residence is more than forty-five (45) miles from the
nearest PPN provider. The amount of salary continuance provided by the Company will be
adjusted to reflect any federal or state income tax benefit received by the Flight Attendant as
the result of receiving Workers’ Compensation benefits. Salary continuance will be offset by
the Workers’ Compensation benefits. A Flight Attendant who receives more salary
continuance than they are entitled to will reimburse the Company for the amount of
overpayment in accordance with Compensation, Section 3. The Company will promptly notify
a Flight Attendant in writing of any overpayment amounts. If the Flight Attendant continues to
be disabled when the period of salary continuance ends, they may apply for Long Term
Disability in accordance with Insurance, Retirement, and Other Benefits, Section 26.
2. A Flight Attendant who is receiving Workers’ Compensation benefits shall be eligible to receive
salary continuance for a total period of up to six (6) months as a result of that particular illness
or injury, except that such period shall be extended up to thirty-six (36) months if the injury is
incurred while performing Flight Attendant duties and is because of an Aircraft Accident and
which resulted in any of the following: 1) hospitalization of more than forty-eight (48) hours,
commencing within seven (7) days from the date the injury was received; 2) results in a
fracture of any bone (except simple fractures of fingers, toes, or nose); 3) causes severe
hemorrhages, nerve, muscle or tendon damage; 4) involves any internal organ; or 5) involves
second- or third-degree burns, or any burns affecting more than five percent (5%) of the body
surface. For the purposes of this Paragraph, “Aircraft Accident” means an occurrence
associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person
boards the aircraft with the intention of flight and all such persons have disembarked, and in
which any person suffers death or in which the aircraft receives Substantial Damage.
“Substantial Damage” shall be as defined in CFR, Title 49, Transportation, Chapter VIII, PART
830, Subpart A – General, Section 830.2. An eligible Flight Attendant who applies for Long
Term Disability benefits pursuant to Insurance, Retirement, and Other Benefits, Section 26,

-- 217 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
27-2
may commence such coverage once the Flight Attendant has exhausted their salary
continuance.
3. Major Aircraft Accident
After the conclusion of thirty-six (36) month period, a Flight Attendant who is assigned to a
Company operated aircraft that was involved in a major aircraft accident, defined as an air
accident resulting in:
a. multiple fatalities; or
b. one (1) fatality with substantial aircraft damage, and, as such, sustains injuries or
disabilities as a direct consequence of the aircraft accident that prevents the Flight
Attendant from returning to active duty will receive seventy-five (75) hours of pay per
month. The seventy-five (75) hours of pay per month shall be offset by the Workers'
Compensation benefits. Such payment will be made in accordance with the Flight
Attendant’s length of service and will continue to the earlier of separation from the
Company or age sixty-five (65). No deductions will be made from the Flight Attendant's
sick leave account, and scheduled pay increases as provided in Compensation, Section
3, will be applicable.
4. If the Flight Attendant receives salary continuance during the month of illness or injury, the six
(6) or thirty-six (36) month period shall begin during the month of injury. If the Flight Attendant
does not utilize salary continuance during the month of illness or injury, i.e., the Flight
Attendant has already worked more than their six (6) month average or monthly maximum,
the six (6) or thirty-six (36) month period will commence the month after the month of illness
or injury.
5. For purposes of determining the last six (6) months as an active Flight Attendant, only months
when the Flight Attendant has been active at least fifteen (15) days in a month shall be
included in the calculation. In determining the six (6) month average, all credit hours, including
any credit hours from the ETB, shall be included in the calculation.
6. A Flight Attendant eligible for salary continuance shall receive the following:
a. Unable to Report All Month
If unable to report for duty for the entire month, the Flight Attendant shall receive an
amount equal to their six (6) month average but in no case shall the Flight Attendant
receive an amount greater than a monthly maximum of one hundred and ten (110) hours.
b. Returning to Duty Mid-Month
If returning to duty for a portion of the month after the month has commenced, the Flight
Attendant shall receive salary continuance according to the following formula:
i. Lineholder
(Six (6) month average but not to exceed the monthly maximum of one hundred and
ten (110) hours) / # of days in bid month) x # of days from the beginning of the bid
month to release date.
ii. Reserve
(Six (6) month average but not to exceed the monthly maximum of one hundred and
ten (110) hours) / # of days in bid month) x # of days from the beginning of the bid
month to release date.

-- 218 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
27-3
c. Disabled Mid-Month Without Returning the Same Month
If, after reporting for duty for any portion of the month, should an occupational illness or
injury preclude a Flight Attendant from returning to duty the same month, the Flight
Attendant shall receive salary continuance according to the following:
i. If the amount of credited time flown in the partial month plus the remaining scheduled
time in the Flight Attendant’s original line exceeds the six (6) month average, the Flight
Attendant can claim the remaining scheduled time in the Flight Attendant’s original line,
but in no case shall the Flight Attendant claim an amount greater than the monthly
maximum of one hundred and ten (110) hours;
ii. If the amount of credited time flown in the partial month plus the remaining scheduled
time in the Flight Attendant’s original line does not exceed the six (6) month average,
the Flight Attendant can claim the difference up to the average, but in no case more
than the monthly maximum of one hundred and ten (110) hours.
d. Disabled Mid-Month and Returning the Same Month:
If a Flight Attendant becomes injured or ill after the month has commenced and returns to
work prior to the end of the month, the Flight Attendant shall receive salary continuance
according to the following:
i. Lineholder
If a Lineholder becomes injured or ill after the month has commenced, and returns to
work prior to the end of the month, they shall receive salary continuance according to
the following:
A Lineholder will receive salary continuance in an amount equal to their projection, as
determined at the time they are disabled, but not to exceed the monthly maximum of
one hundred and ten (110) hours, minus the credited time accumulated prior to the
date of disability and the scheduled credited time after the release date.
ii. Reserve
A Reserve will receive salary continuance in the amount equal to their six (6) month
average not to exceed the monthly maximum of one hundred and ten (110) hours
divided by the total number of days in the month times the number of days from the
date of disability until the date of release.
E. Any dispute regarding a Flight Attendant’s return to work not otherwise governed by the applicable
Worker’s Compensation statute will be resolved pursuant to Medical Examinations, Section 28.
F. If a Workers’ Compensation claim is denied, the Flight Attendant may appeal such claim through
normal state channels. While the claim is in the appeal period, the Flight Attendant will be paid
sick hours if the Flight Attendant has sick hours in their bank and at the Flight Attendant’s option
scheduled vacation. If a Flight Attendant is claiming sick leave and has scheduled vacation, they
must notify the Company if they wish to cancel the scheduled vacation. If the decision is reversed
and the claim is approved, the amount of sick leave and vacation time claimed, and sick leave and
vacation that would have been accrued but for the original denial of the claim during the appeal
period will be returned to the Flight Attendant’s sick leave and vacation banks. The amount of sick
leave and vacation time reinstated will be limited to the amount of salary continuance the Flight
Attendant would have been eligible for pursuant to Paragraph D.5. Taxes will be adjusted in
accordance with the law. However, if the Flight Attendant has no sick leave or vacation time and

-- 219 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
27-4
the decision is reversed and the claim approved, then salary continuance along with related
benefits will be paid retroactively.
G. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to work light duty in order to qualify for salary continuance.
H. The Company shall notify a Flight Attendant in writing upon commencement of an IOD of the Flight
Attendant’s responsibilities under Leaves of Absence, Section 25.K.5.
I. BENEFITS
1. A Flight Attendant will continue to accrue sick and vacation through the IOD, i.e. salary
continuance absence, in accordance with Sections 8.A.3 and 9.C.1.a.
2. A Flight Attendant shall be considered an active employee for all purposes, i.e., medical,
dental, vision, disability and life insurance for the duration of the time the Flight Attendant is
receiving salary continuance and for any period of time following the conclusion of salary
continuance that the Flight Attendant is claiming sick leave or vacation. Following the
expiration of salary continuance and the exhaustion of sick leave and vacation bank, if utilized,
the Flight Attendant shall be placed on an unpaid Occupational Injury/Medical Leave of
Absence and shall receive all continued benefits associated with that leave. Pass travel
privileges shall be pursuant to Company policy.
3. As an exception, a Flight Attendant with available sick hours may request within seven (7)
business days of the end of the salary continuance period to be placed on an unpaid
Occupational Injury/Medical Leave of Absence. Flight Attendants who choose to be placed
on an unpaid status without exhausting their sick bank will not be eligible for Long Term
Disability.
J. A Flight Attendant shall retain and accrue occupational seniority and classification/longevity
seniority for the duration of the IOD absence and any unpaid Occupational Injury/Medical Leave of
Absence.
K. A Flight Attendant on IOD may, upon request, attend training if approved in advance by Inflight.
L. A Flight Attendant on IOD during their probationary period shall have their probationary period
extended accordingly.
M. A Flight Attendant who becomes ill or injured as a result of an occupational incident shall not be
charged a sick leave occurrence for absences related to the occupational illness or injury.

-- 220 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
28-1
SECTION 28 - MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS
A. Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement, a Flight Attendant shall not be required to submit
to any Company medical examination unless the Company determines that reasonable grounds
exist to establish that a Flight Attendant’s physical or mental health condition may impair the
performance of their normal duties as a Flight Attendant. The Flight Attendant shall be notified in
writing of such reasonable grounds. The medical or mental health examination authorized under
Paragraph A shall be subject to the following conditions:
1. The Company shall choose the medical doctor or mental health professional (collectively
referred to as the “health care provider”) who will conduct the examination and shall be
responsible for the cost of the examination and all related laboratory tests and other diagnostic
procedures.
2. The Company may submit to the examining health care provider an impartial written
explanation of the circumstances giving rise to the request for the examination. The Flight
Attendant shall be provided a copy of the Company’s explanation at the same time the
Company submits the explanation to the health care provider.
3. If the Company’s examining health care provider recommends that the Flight Attendant be
examined by a specialist(s), the Flight Attendant shall be referred to the specialist(s). The
Flight Attendant shall be examined by the specialist(s) at the Company’s expense. The Flight
Attendant shall receive a written explanation of the reasons for the further examination if the
Flight Attendant so requests. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Company from
making an initial referral to a specialist(s).
4. Records of any examinations, laboratory and x-ray reports, or other diagnostic procedures
shall be maintained by the examining health care provider(s). Any information obtained by or
as a result of such examination(s) shall be strictly confidential between the examining health
care provider(s) and the Flight Attendant and shall not be divulged to any other person without
the specific written permission of the Flight Attendant except as provided in Paragraph A.6.
The Flight Attendant shall receive copies of all evaluations, reports, diagnostic interpretations,
and test results at the Company’s expense.
5. The examining specialist(s), if used, shall notify the Company’s health care provider, in writing,
of only those medical condition(s) that directly relate to the Flight Attendant’s ability to perform
the essential functions of their position.
6. The Company’s health care provider or examining specialist(s), if used, shall also advise the
Company, to the extent requested to do so, as to the nature of the illness or injury; any
restrictions required in connection with the injury or illness; and the estimated date of return
to active flight status. No other information shall be provided to or requested by the Company.
7. A copy of the written report(s) and finding(s) provided upon receipt by the health care
provider(s) or specialist(s) to the Company shall also be provided to the Flight Attendant by
the health care provider(s) or specialist(s). If the health care provider fails to provide the
report(s) and finding(s), the Company shall provide the report(s) and finding(s) to the Flight
Attendant, upon request.
B. The Company will conduct any examination provided for in Section 28 in the metropolitan area in
which the Flight Attendant resides, unless the Company is unable to locate a suitable health care
provider to conduct such examination. If it is not possible for the Company to provide the
examination in the area in which the Flight Attendant resides, the Company will furnish the Flight

-- 221 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
28-2
Attendant with round-trip positive space transportation over the Company’s system from the
American Airlines station nearest their residence to the location of the health care provider. A Flight
Attendant shall be provided lodging, transportation for travel from the airport to/from the location of
the health care provider and reimbursement for reasonable actual meals.
If the Flight Attendant drives to the site of the examination, excluding any travel to reach the
American Airlines station nearest the Flight Attendant’s residence for the purpose of air travel, the
Company shall reimburse the Flight Attendant for transportation at IRS minimum rates, reasonable
actual meals and lodging, if the Flight Attendant must travel more than twenty-five (25) miles from
their residence to the site of the examination.
C. A Flight Attendant may appeal the Company health care provider’s determination in the following
manner:
1. The Flight Attendant, at their own expense, may retain a qualified health care provider (one
whose medical practice or specialization is consistent with the findings made by the
Company’s health care provider) of their own choosing to examine the Flight Attendant to
confirm or refute the results of the initial examination by the Company’s health care provider.
2. The Flight Attendant shall sign a release and the Company’s health care provider immediately
shall forward the Flight Attendant’s complete medical file to the Flight Attendant’s health care
provider prior to the subsequent examination.
3. The Flight Attendant’s health care provider shall forward a written report outlining the results
of the second examination to the Company’s health care provider for review. If the Company’s
and Flight Attendant’s health care providers make the same determination regarding the Flight
Attendant’s fitness for duty, there shall be no further review of the case.
4. In the event the findings of the Flight Attendant’s health care provider disagree with those of
the Company’s health care provider, at the Flight Attendant’s option, the Company and the
Flight Attendant shall jointly request, in writing, that the two (2) health care providers agree
upon and appoint a third qualified and disinterested health care provider who is a specialist in
the appropriate field of medicine to conduct an independent examination, of the Flight
Attendant. At least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled independent examination,
the neutral health care provider shall be given copies of the Flight Attendant’s medical files
and all other reports and films relied on by the Company’s and Flight Attendant’s health care
providers in making their determinations.
5. The neutral health care provider shall then examine the Flight Attendant and shall provide the
parties’ respective health care providers with a written report no later than ten (10) business
days from the date of the examination. The medical dispute shall be settled on the basis of
such findings and the parties agree to be bound by the determination made by the neutral
health care provider regarding the Flight Attendant’s fitness for duty.
6. The Flight Attendant and the Company shall each pay one-half (1/2) of the costs of the
independent examination.
D. In connection with the procedures in Paragraphs A and C, if a Flight Attendant is withheld from
service under the provisions of those Paragraphs and it is subsequently determined by the
Company or the neutral health care provider that the Flight Attendant was actually fit to perform
their duties, the Company shall take the following actions:
1. When a Flight Attendant is removed from flying status by the Company as a result of their
failure to pass the Company’s medical examination and appeals such action under the

-- 222 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
28-3
provisions of this Section, the Flight Attendant shall, if such action is proven to be unwarranted
as provided in this Section, be paid retroactively for time lost, the amount which they would
have ordinarily earned, based on a six (6) month average as an active Flight Attendant, had
they been continued on flight status during such period.
2. If the Flight Attendant used any sick leave or vacation time while they were held out of service,
such time shall be restored to the Flight Attendant’s sick leave and vacation banks.
3. The Flight Attendant will be provided lost benefit accruals (i.e., sick leave, vacation, 401k
match, applicable passes if any, FICA and other wage taxes, and insurance premiums).
4. All references to the medical dispute shall be removed from the Flight Attendant’s personnel
file and Inflight file.
E. GENERAL
1. Any examination conducted under the provisions of this Section shall be performed within ten
(10) business days of the receipt of the applicable written notification of the examination.
Reasonable additional time shall be afforded to the examining health care provider so that
they can receive and evaluate the results of special laboratory, x-ray, or other necessary tests.
The parties may mutually agree, in writing, to waive or extend the time limits set forth above.
2. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to undergo any examination under the provisions of
this Section within twelve (12) hours before or after a duty period.
3. Medical or mental health information obtained under the provisions of this Section shall be
collected and maintained in separate medical files by the Company and shall be treated as
confidential medical records consistent with the record keeping requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA) and/or FMLA.
4. When required by a court order or other legal requirement to release medical information, the
Flight Attendant shall be notified of such action before the Company complies with the court
order.
5. Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from rendering first aid or medical service to a
Flight Attendant in the event of illness or injury.
6. In the event a Flight Attendant is determined to be unfit to perform Flight Attendant duties as
a consequence of the procedures described in Paragraphs A and C, the Flight Attendant may,
at their option, receive Sick Leave benefits in accordance with Sick Leave, Section 9, from the
date withheld from service.
7. Section 28 does not preclude any requirements by the Company’s insurance administrators
for additional medical examination and/or information related to benefit coverage, eligibility,
and/or continuation.

-- 223 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
29-1
SECTION 29 - TRAINING
A. A Flight Attendant shall not be required to pay for training required or conducted by the Company.
B. The Company may conduct training at various crew bases.
C. Daily training periods shall not exceed nine (9) hours, excluding a lunch period. Except during
extraordinary circumstances when simulators/mock-ups are not available and that portion of
training is required on the aircraft, training shall not be scheduled to begin between 2200 and 0600.
D. BIDDING AND ASSIGNMENT
1. The Company will implement an electronic bidding system for the scheduling of training. Such
bids will be processed in seniority order and will allow the Flight Attendant to buddy bid
including placement in a specific class on a day. Results will be posted prior to the opening
of the monthly PBS bid. Training dates awarded will be placed on each Flight Attendant’s line
as a pre-planned absence.
a. Electronic training bid packages, including bidding instructions, shall be distributed
through an electronic bidding system to all Flight Attendants. The training bid package
shall contain a list identifying biddable training events.
b. Flight Attendants shall bid for training prior to the eighth (8th) of the month preceding the
training base month. Flight Attendants will be supplied training material two (2) months
prior to their base month.
c. When more than one (1) training day is required, a Flight Attendant will be required to bid
for training as consecutive days, if applicable.
d. A Flight Attendant shall submit a bid for training or have a standing bid on file indicating
their bid preferences for training.
e. In the event special training is mandated by the Company, Federal Aviation Administration
or other governmental agency where classroom training is required, training periods shall
be made available for bid. Paragraph D shall not apply to such training where insufficient
time exists for a Flight Attendant to bid.
f. Preference for training dates shall be considered in accordance with seniority, however
priority to fulfill training during the base month shall be the objective of the electronic
bidding system during the training award. Training dates awarded or assigned to a Flight
Attendant shall be designated as planned absences in PBS.
g. A Flight Attendant who fails to bid or bids insufficiently their training will be assigned in
seniority order. However, in such instances equipment qualification or service training will
be assigned in inverse seniority order.
h. In the event that training classes are not sufficient to accommodate scheduling those
Flight Attendants who require training during their base month, training shall be made in
seniority order during the grace month with priority given to fulfilling the requirement for
training of those Flight Attendants bidding in their grace month.
2. A Flight Attendant will not be assigned to training on a vacation day but may elect to attend
training during their scheduled vacation.

-- 224 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
29-2
3. A Flight Attendant’s base month may only be changed by the Company. Notification of such
change will be provided promptly to the Flight Attendant. The Company will make every effort
to resolve base month imbalances through the distribution of the base month assignments to
newly hired Flight Attendants. If necessary, the parties agree to a one-time realignment of
base month assignment following American Airlines/US Airways operational integration. The
Company will offer the opportunity to change months in seniority order. If there are insufficient
volunteers, the Company shall use inverse seniority.
4. A Flight Attendant on a leave of absence may, upon request, attend training, if approved in
advance by the Inflight Department.
5. A day in training, including any day(s) of travel between crew base and training when required
by the Company, will not be considered a day off for purposes of the minimum days off
provisions of this Agreement. A Flight Attendant, who, because of training, would receive less
than the minimum days off will, upon request, receive another minimum day(s) off pursuant to
this Agreement.
6. Trips/Training Conflicts
a. Any training dates awarded or assigned shall be placed in a Flight Attendant’s PBS bid
as a preplanned activity and their PBS award shall not create a conflict with their awarded
or assigned training date(s).
b. If the Flight Attendant is illegal to originate a sequence subsequent to a training event,
due to circumstances beyond the Flight Attendant’s control, the provision relating to Illegal
Through No Fault, Scheduling, Section 10, shall apply.
c. If actual operations cause a Reserve’s training day to be extended into their Flex Day,
Reserve Duty, Section 12.B.4.d, shall apply. If actual operations cause a Reserve’s
training day to be extended into their Golden Day, Reserve Duty, Section 12.B.2.d, shall
apply.
d. If through no fault of the Flight Attendant, a Flight Attendant is assigned training which
conflicts with their assigned sequence the Flight Attendant shall be dropped from the
sequence(s) that conflicts with training. The Flight Attendant shall not be obligated to
make up the time. Pay protection will not apply.
7. A Flight Attendant assigned a training date pursuant to Paragraph D.1, may switch to any
available training opening that does not create a conflict. The request must be submitted at
least five (5) business days prior to the Flight Attendant’s scheduled training date.
8. Flight Attendants may trade training dates that fall within the same bid month with each other.
All trades must be submitted via an automated process or to Training Registration no later
than 0900 HBT on the business day prior to the training date(s). If training falls on a Sunday
or Monday, the trade must be processed no later than the business day before the training
date. Trades will not be approved if they create a scheduling conflict, are not in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement or are not in compliance with applicable FARs.
E. TRAINING PAY
1. A Flight Attendant shall receive one hundred and fifty seventy-five dollars ($150.00 75.00) pay
for each day of Recurrent training. If Distance Learning is substituted for a day of Recurrent
training, the Flight Attendant shall be paid one hundred and fifty seventy-five dollars ($150.00
75.00) pay for the Distance Learning. If a Flight Attendant is required to travel to or from

-- 225 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
29-3
training on a day other than the actual training days, the Flight Attendant shall receive one
hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) pay.
2. A Flight Attendant shall receive one hundred and fifty seventy-five dollars ($150.00 75.00) pay
for each day of non-Recurrent classroom training. If a Flight Attendant is required to travel to
or from training on a day other than the actual training days, the Flight Attendant shall receive
one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) pay.
3. A Flight Attendant shall receive the following pay for non-Recurrent Distance Learning as
determined by the amount of time a Flight Attendant would reasonably take to complete the
training: up to two (2) hours twenty-five dollars ($25.00); two (2) hours and one (1) minute to
four (4) hours fifty dollars ($50.00); four (4) hours and one (1) minute to eight (8) hours
seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
4. A Flight Attendant who reports to the airport for their scheduled deadhead to training, including
a scheduled deadhead from the Flight Attendant’s residence as specified in Paragraph H.1,
and the flight fails to operate or is delayed so that the Flight Attendant will not be able to attend
training or arrive home within the sixteen (16) hour limitation will receive a minimum of three
(3) hours pay and credit, provided an alternate deadhead flight and training class is not
available within the sixteen (16) hour limitation, determined by the check-in time for the original
flight.
5. Subsequent Recurrent Because of Failure
The provisions of Section 29.E shall not apply when a Flight Attendant is required to attend a
subsequent Recurrent program because of their failure to satisfactorily complete the initial
Recurrent program.
6. Paragraph E shall not be applicable to base indoctrination.
F. EXPENSES
1. A Flight Attendant awarded or assigned to Recurrent training away from their crew base shall
be paid Per Diem in accordance with Expenses, Section 4, for all hours away from the Flight
Attendant’s crew base. If the Flight Attendant opts to travel from their residence, the Per Diem
shall be provided as if the Flight Attendant traveled from their crew base.
2. A Flight Attendant awarded or assigned to training at their crew base shall be paid Per Diem
in accordance with Expenses, Section 4, for all actual hours in training, excluding Distance
Learning.
3. When a Flight Attendant travels to another crew base for training they shall be eligible for
transportation in accordance with Crew Accommodations, Section 6. A Flight Attendant will
be eligible for lodging in accordance with Section 6 when:
a. For each overnight between training classes, when two (2) or more consecutive days of
training are scheduled;
b. At the Flight Attendant’s request, when the combination of scheduled travel with
deadheading to and from crew base to training and training time exceeds sixteen (16)
hours, including check-in and check-out;
c. If an event beyond the control of the Flight Attendant, e.g., flight cancellation, irregular
operations, weather, class runs late, extends the combination of travel and training
beyond the sixteen (16) hour limitation as specified in Paragraph D, the Company shall

-- 226 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
29-4
provide a single hotel room in accordance with Crew Accommodations, Section 6, for such
Flight Attendant.
4. A Flight Attendant based in the city of the Company’s training center who is attending annual
recurrent training (including any additional training scheduled the day before or after recurrent
training) or base equipment training who lives more than fifty (50) miles from the training
location shall be provided lodging as provided in Paragraph F.3.a.
G. DISTANCE LEARNING
1. One (1) day of Recurrent training may be scheduled as Distance Learning. The Flight
Attendant will complete the Distance Learning prior to the commencement of Recurrent
training.
2. The total number of hours required to complete any Distance Learning shall not exceed eight
(8) hours.
3. The Company may require the Flight Attendant to complete Distance Learning as a computer
based program on an annual basis. The Company will provide all necessary materials or
computer programs to Flight Attendants at no cost at least two (2) months prior to Recurrent
training. The Flight Attendant shall be able to access such program on their home computer.
The Company will provide an electronic copy of a study guide covering the materials that the
Flight Attendant will be tested on during Recurrent training.
4. The Flight Attendant shall be paid for Distance Learning and/or any required videos in
excess of twenty (20) minutes as specified in Paragraph E.1.
5. In each crew base, the Company will make available at the airport an adequate number of
technologically suitable computers located in an area suitable for study and the completion of
Computer-Based Training (CBT).
H. DUTY AND REST FOR TRAINING
1. The combination of travel while deadheading to and from crew base to training and training
time will not exceed sixteen (16) hours without an intervening rest as specified in Paragraph
H.2, except at the Flight Attendant’s option. The sixteen (16) hour period will start at the
beginning of the training class or, if deadheading to training, at check-in for the deadhead
flight to training. The sixteen (16) hour period will end at the conclusion of training or, if
deadheading from training, at the check-out from the deadhead flight.
2. Each Flight Attendant will receive rest for training as follows. Rest will start at check-out from
the deadhead flight or the end of training. Rest will end at check-in for the deadhead flight or
at the start of training.
a. Prior to training in crew base or check-in for the deadhead flight from the Flight Attendant’s
crew base to training, the Flight Attendant will receive any minimum crew base rest
associated with the trip the Flight Attendant flew immediately prior to training or associated
with a Reserve assignment.*
b. If the Flight Attendant is required to deadhead from their crew base to training the day
prior to training and is required to overnight, the Flight Attendant shall receive the
minimum out of crew base rest prior to training.**
c. Minimum crew base rest after the end of training.**

-- 227 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
29-5
d. Minimum crew base rest after check-out from the deadhead flight back to the Flight
Attendant’s crew base.**
e. If a Flight Attendant is required to deadhead back to their crew base the day after training,
the Flight Attendant shall receive the minimum out of crew base rest prior to the deadhead
flight.**
*A Flight Attendant may elect to reduce this rest to the FAR minimums.
**A Flight Attendant may waive these rest requirements.
3. When scheduling a sequence after completing training, if ten (10 eight (8) hours rest is not
obtained following training, the hours of training are counted as duty time and added to the
duty time of the trip’s first duty period. This continuous duty period from the start of training
through the end of the first duty period of the sequence cannot be scheduled to exceed
fourteen (14) hours.
I. MISCELLANEOUS
1. A Flight Attendant who elects to drop a trip because they are not receiving the required rest
as provided in Paragraph H, shall make every effort to contact Crew Scheduling prior to
returning to the Flight Attendant’s crew base, but in no case later than upon their arrival at
their crew base.
2. A Reserve Flight Attendant will not be required to take a trip on the same day they attend
training.
3. A Flight Attendant will not be required to fly and attend training for more than six (6)
consecutive days unless the six (6) consecutive day period either contains or is followed by a
consecutive twenty-four (24) hours free from all duty. Such twenty-four (24) hours shall be
actual hours and shall be calculated from the time of check-out to check-in.
a. At the Flight Attendant’s option, training may be scheduled immediately following any
combination of six (6) days of reserve availability, training and flight duty. However, such
Flight Attendant shall receive twenty-four (24) hours free from duty after training before
flight duty or return to reserve availability.
b. Flight duty may not be scheduled immediately following any combination of six (6) days
of reserve availability, training and flight duty.
4. A Flight Attendant is not required to complete International Service Qualification in order to fly
NIPD.
J. TRAVEL TO AND FROM TRAINING
1. A Flight Attendant deadheading for the purpose of out-of-crew base training will be provided
positive space travel to and from the city where training is being conducted. At the Flight
Attendant’s option, this authorization may be from the city in which the Flight Attendant
resides provided the city is served by American Airlines to the city where training is being
conducted, subject to the provision that at the time such booking is made, a seat is available.
Once booked under the process described above, such Flight Attendant cannot be removed
in an oversell situation or due to weight restrictions.

-- 228 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
29-6
2. If the Flight Attendant opts to travel from their residence, the sixteen (16) hour limitation
specified in Paragraph H.1, and the rest as provided in Paragraph H.2, shall be calculated as
if the Flight Attendant traveled from their crew base.
K. Consistent with Company policy, cigarette smoking will be permitted outside of training rooms,
provided designated smoking areas are available and further provided such smoking is not
prohibited by applicable federal, state or local laws or Company policy.

-- 229 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-1
SECTION 30 - DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
A. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS
1. Purpose
a. Intent
The Dispute Resolution Process described herein is intended to resolve create
fundamental changes in the method and manner of resolving disputes in a prompt
problem-solving fashion between the parties, and to facilitate non-adversarial resolution
of disputes, wherever possible. This process applies is applicable to all disputes other
than Presidential and Discharge Grievances.
b. Implementation/Training
To ensure the successful implementation of the Dispute Resolution Process, the
Company and the APFA agree that joint Alternative Dispute Resolution/Conflict
Resolution training shall be conducted for Company and APFA representatives as soon
as practicable after ratification of this Agreement. Each party shall be responsible for any
costs associated with travel, incidentals, and/or trip removals of their respective
participants for the initial training and any training conducted thereafter. The individual or
firm selected will also conduct “Train the Trainer” sessions so that ongoing training for
new Company and APFA personnel can be jointly presented by trained Company and
APFA representatives.
c.b. Railway Labor Act
Nothing within this Dispute Resolution Process is intended in any way to affect or abridge
the rights of any individual under the Railway Labor Act.
2. Types Of Disputes
a. Individual Dispute
An individual dispute (Individual Dispute) is defined as a dispute between a Flight
Attendant and the Company involving any action of the Company affecting the Flight
Attendant, except discharge.
b. Group Dispute
A group dispute (Group Dispute) is defined as a dispute protesting any action of the
Company which affects those specifically named Flight Attendants at the same base and
in the same manner, e.g., scheduling or pay matter affecting all Flight Attendants on a
specific leg on a specific day. Any APFA representative shall be recognized by the
Company as the representative of a specific named group of Flight Attendants at their
base for the purpose of submitting such dispute. The provisions of Paragraph A shall
apply to the processing of such Group Disputes.
c. Base Dispute
A base dispute (Base Dispute) is defined as a dispute protesting any action of the
Company affecting Flight Attendants at the base as a group. The APFA Base President
or APFA designee shall be recognized by the Company as the representative of Flight

-- 230 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-2
Attendants at that base for the purpose of submitting such dispute. The provisions of
Paragraph A shall apply to the processing of such Base Disputes.
d. Contract Dispute
A Contract Dispute is defined as a dispute between a Flight Attendant(s) and the Company
protesting the interpretation of the Agreement or a Company policy, except discharge.
Such contract dispute can be filed as an individual, group or base dispute consistent with
the provisions above.
3. Notice of Dispute or Contract Dispute Process
a. Filing
A Flight Attendant having such a dispute may file an abbreviated, informal document
termed a Notice of Dispute (hereinafter referred to as a NOD) or Contract Dispute in
person or through an APFA representative, within twenty (20) ten (10) days, exclusive of
Saturdays and Sundays, after becoming aware of such dispute. Such NOD or Contract
Dispute shall be filed with the Manager of Inflight, or their designee. Any and all
documents supporting the claim that are in the possession of the Flight Attendant or the
APFA representative should be attached to the NOD or Contract Dispute form at the time
of filing. If the Flight Attendant does not come forward with information to substantiate the
dispute, the APFA may administratively withdraw the NOD or Contract Dispute. form at
the time of filing.
b. Signature/Authorization
Such NOD or Contract Dispute must be signed by the individual Flight Attendant(s)
affected who is filing the dispute. If the NOD or Contract Dispute is submitted through an
APFA representative, a signed authorization must be submitted to the Company,
designating the APFA as the representative of the Flight Attendant(s) affected with respect
to the dispute. Employees covered by this Agreement may be represented at a Dispute
Resolution Conference by such person as they may choose and designate, and the
Company may be represented by such person as it may designate.
c. Distribution of NOD or Contract Dispute
Unless the APFA has filed the NOD on behalf of the Flight Attendant, the Company shall
provide a copy of the NOD to the APFA Base President, or APFA designee, within five (5)
working days of the Company’s receipt of the NOD.
Unless the APFA has filed the Contract Dispute on behalf of the Flight Attendant, the
Company shall provide a copy of the Contract Dispute to the Base President and the
APFA National Vice President, or APFA designees, within five (5) working days of the
Company’s receipt of the Contract Dispute.
4. Base Resolution Process/Dispute Resolution Conference (DRC) for NODs
a. Informal Discussion/Initial Exchange of Documents for NODs
After a NOD is filed, the Company, the Flight Attendant(s) and their APFA representative
should endeavor to informally discuss and resolve the dispute as soon as possible. The parties
will commence the exchange of all documents supporting their respective positions at this

-- 231 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-3
point. If the parties reach agreement, the agreement shall be summarized and processed as
in Paragraphs 4.c and d.
b. Dispute Resolution Conference (DRC) for NODs
i. If the parties are not able to resolve the issue informally, a Dispute Resolution
Conference shall be convened within thirty (30) days of the filing of the NOD at a time
and date mutually agreed upon.
ii. The scheduling of a DRC shall be coordinated through the Manager of Inflight
Operations’ office at the Flight Attendant’s base station. Except as noted below,
participants at the DRC shall be limited to the Flight Attendant(s) who filed the NOD,
their APFA Representative, and a Company representative(s). The parties may invite
subject matter experts if appropriate. In all matters involving an individual Flight
Attendant’s performance or attendance, or a matter specific to the individual Flight
Attendant, the Flight Attendant shall be present at the DRC. In all other disputes, such
as scheduling, contractual or other policy issues, the Flight Attendant may elect not to
attend the DRC and be represented at the DRC by their APFA representative. The
meeting shall be a problem-solving meeting intended to resolve the issue if possible.
Any agreement reached will typically be issued at the DRC meeting and in no event
no more than five (5) working days following the DRC.
c. Resolution for NODs
Should the parties be successful in reaching a resolution to the dispute, the matter shall
be considered resolved and no further action shall be taken by the parties on the matter
except any action necessary to implement the terms of the resolution reached between
the parties. Such resolution shall be summarized on the NOD form and signed by all
parties and shall be provided to the Flight Attendant and the APFA representative
involved, or, if none, to the APFA Base President, or APFA designee. The DRC shall
have no ability to amend or change the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
d. Acceptance of Resolution
i. In the case of an individual or group dispute, if not in attendance, the Flight
Attendant(s), or the APFA representative, as applicable, shall have five (5) days
exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays, from receipt of the resolution to notify the
Manager of Inflight Operations, or their designee, that the resolution is accepted or
rejected.
ii. In the case of an Individual or Group Dispute, the Flight Attendant(s) shall notify the
Manager of Inflight Operations, or their designee, of the Flight Attendant’s acceptance
by:
a. signing the resolution form indicating the Flight Attendant’s acceptance and
returning the completed form to the Manager of Inflight Operations, or their
designee;
b. orally notifying the Manager of Inflight Operations, or their designee, either in
person or by telephone; or

-- 232 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-4
c. authorizing the Flight Attendant’s APFA representative to communicate to the
Manager of Inflight Operations, or their designee, the Flight Attendant’s
acceptance either orally or in writing.
d. In the event the Flight Attendant(s) or APFA Representative, as applicable,
provides no response within ten (10) days, exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays,
following receipt of the recommendation, the resolutions shall be deemed rejected
and the dispute will be submitted to the Grievance Determination Conference.
iii. In the case of a Base Dispute, the APFA representative shall either sign the NOD
resolution form at the meeting or notify the Manager of Inflight Operations, or their
designee, within ten (10) days exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays, of the Dispute
Resolution Conference by:
a. signing the recommendation form indicating the APFA representative’s
acceptance and returning the completed form to the Manager of Inflight
Operations, or their designee; or
b. orally notifying the Manager of Inflight Operations, or their designee, either in
person or by telephone.
e. Discussions/Resolution Off the Record/Non-Precedential for NODs
All matters discussed or decided prior to or during the DRC process including resolutions,
shall be off the record and shall have no precedential effect on any other matter or be
admissible or relied upon in any other matter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties
are not precluded from referring to such a resolution orally and in general terms, and
should not refer to specific bases or number of such resolutions reached in other DRCs
or initial informal discussions under this procedure.
f. Contract Dispute Process
All Contract Disputes will be discussed at the Base level in accordance with Paragraph A
4.a above but if not resolved at the Base level will bypass the DRC process and go
directly to a Grievance Determination Conference (GDC) as described in Paragraph A.6
for expedited resolution.
5. NOD/Contract Dispute Submission to the Grievance Determination Conference
If the parties are unable to resolve the issue following the DRC the NOD may be submitted
to the Grievance Determination Conference. The submission of a dispute to the Grievance
Determination Conference must be made within thirty (30) days of the DRC decision and will
include the question(s) at issue, a statement of facts, the position of employee/APFA, and all
documents the parties have exchanged to date.
In the case of a contract dispute, the dispute may be submitted to the Grievance
Determination Conference within thirty (30) days after it is determined it cannot be resolved
at the base level.
6. Grievance Determination Conference

-- 233 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-5
The purpose of the Grievance Determination Conference shall be to attempt to reach an
acceptable resolution of the dispute informally, if possible.
a. The Grievance Determination Conference shall be composed of up to six (6) participants,
an equal number appointed by the APFA and the Company. The Grievance Determination
Conference shall be empowered to make decisions by majority vote.
b. The mission and purpose of the Grievance Determination Conference is to promote the
prompt, effective resolution of disputes and preserve traditional arbitration for the timely
adjudication of discharge grievances and contractual disputes that have significant and
widespread impact among Flight Attendants. The Grievance Determination Conference
shall meet at least every other month if necessary but will add additional days or meet
monthly if needed to address volume of grievances. The Company and/or the APFA may
invite subject matter experts to the Grievance Determination Conference.
c. The Grievance Determination Conference will meet and review the NOD or Contract
Dispute Submissions and is empowered to:
i. Resolve the NOD or Contract Dispute and memorialize and sign the written resolution;
or
ii. Carry the NOD or Contract Dispute over to the next meeting as a one-time deferral to
get more information; or
iii. Assign the Contract Dispute to the regular SBA or the NOD to the QSB as defined in
Section 31.
d. The Grievance Determination Conference may also meet and review a discharge
dispute(s) submitted by either party.
e. Unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties, all matters discussed by the Grievance
Determination Conference, shall be off the record and shall have no precedential effect
on any other matter or be admissible or relied upon in any other matter unless otherwise
agreed upon by the parties.
f. If the parties reach resolution at the Grievance Determination Conference, the resolution
shall specify whether the Agreement has precedential effect or has no precedential effect
If the settlement is non-precedential, notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties are not
precluded from referring to such a resolution or accepted recommendation orally, and in
general terms, and should not refer to specific bases or number of such resolutions or
accepted recommendations reached by initial informal discussions, other DRCs, or
settlement conferences under this procedure.
g. At the Grievance Determination Conference, the parties shall exchange all documents
not previously exchanged supporting their respective positions. This exchange should
continue throughout the process as documents become known to any of the parties, until
such time as the dispute is finally resolved in accordance with this Agreement. At the
request of the APFA, the Company will share unredacted documents for contract and
discipline/discharge cases. Non-redacted documents will only be shared with the

-- 234 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-6
Grievance Determination Conference participants until such time as provided in Section
31.Q.
7. If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute at the Grievance Determination Conference,
the dispute may be submitted as a grievance to the System Board of Adjustment as provided
for in System Board of Adjustment, Section 31. The submission of a dispute to the SBA must
be made within thirty (30) days of the Grievance Determination Conference. The submission
to the SBA shall include a formal and specific grievance statement, including the matter at
issue and the remedy sought, the NOD or contract dispute, and a copy of all documents
exchanged to date.
8. Conversion of NODs to Contract Dispute
At any time after a NOD is filed in accordance with Paragraph A, either party may determine
that a particular dispute should be converted to a Contract Dispute because in their
determination resolution requires agreement on the interpretation of the Agreement or a
Company policy. In such case, the dispute shall be converted to a Contract Dispute.
9. Conversion of Individual, Group or Base NODs or Contract Disputes to Presidential
Grievances.
a. At any time after a NOD or contract dispute is filed in accordance with Paragraph A, and
prior to submission to the SBA, APFA may determine that a particular dispute involves a
contractual or a policy issue which cannot be resolved at a local level and should be
converted to a Presidential Grievance. In such case, a formal and specific statement of
grievance shall be filed, and the dispute processed in accordance with the Presidential
Grievance procedures detailed herein. The Company may recommend that a NOD is
appropriate for conversion to a Presidential Grievance, and the APFA shall consider the
Company’s recommendation.
b. The Company may recommend that any dispute is appropriate for conversion to a
Presidential Grievance, and the APFA shall consider the Company’s recommendation.
4. Initial Informal Attempt to Reach Resolution
a. Discussion(s)/Initial Exchange of Documents
After a NOD is filed, the Company, the Flight Attendant(s) and her/his APFA
representative should endeavor to discuss and resolve the dispute as soon as possible.
The parties will commence the exchange of all documents supporting their respective
positions at this point.
b. Resolution
Should the parties be successful in reaching a resolution to the dispute, the matter shall
be considered resolved and no further action shall be taken by the parties on the matter
except any action necessary to implement the terms of the resolution reached between
the parties. Such resolution shall be summarized on the NOD form and shall be
provided to the Flight Attendant and the APFA representative involved, or, if none, to the
APFA Base President, or APFA designee.
c. Discussions/Resolution Off the Record/Non-Precedential

-- 235 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-7
All matters discussed or decided prior to the Dispute Resolution Conference (DRC),
including resolutions, shall be off the record and shall have no precedential effect on any
other matter or be admissible or relied upon in any other matter. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the parties are not precluded from referring to such a resolution orally and in
general terms, and should not refer to specific bases or number of such resolutions
reached in other DRCs or initial informal discussions under this procedure.
5. Dispute Resolution Conference
a. Purpose
Should the initial attempts to reach resolution be unsuccessful, a meeting hereinafter
referred to as a Dispute Resolution Conference (DRC) shall be scheduled. The purpose
of the DRC shall be to attempt to reach an acceptable resolution of the dispute
informally.
b. Scheduling Coordination
The scheduling of a DRC shall be coordinated through the Flight Service Base
Manager’s office at the Flight Attendant’s base station.
c. DRC Held Within Thirty (30) Days
The DRC shall be held within thirty (30) days following receipt of the NOD at a time and
date mutually agreed upon, unless the parties otherwise agree.
d. Participants at DRC
Except as noted below, participants at the DRC shall be limited to the Flight Attendant(s)
who filed the NOD, her/his APFA representative, a Company representative and a
Facilitator. In all matters involving an individual Flight Attendant’s performance or
attendance, or a personal matter, the Flight Attendant shall be present at the DRC. In
all other disputes, such as scheduling, contractual or other policy issues, the Flight
Attendant may elect not to attend the DRC and be represented at the DRC by her/his
APFA representative.
e. Summary of Issues
Prior to, or at the beginning of the DRC, the Flight Attendant, or her/his APFA
representative, shall briefly summarize on the NOD form the matter at issue and the
remedy sought. For Group or Base Disputes, as defined in Paragraphs A.2.b and A.2.c,
the APFA representative shall provide this summary on the NOD form.
f. Facilitator
i. Selection
The DRC shall be facilitated by the Flight Service Base Manager or her/his designee,
i.e., a peer Flight Service Manager. The Company shall select the Facilitator, except
that any individual who is or was materially involved in the decision and/or the events
leading to the NOD shall not be eligible to serve as the Facilitator at the DRC for that
NOD. The Company shall consider the recommendation of the APFA grievance
representative in the selection of the Facilitator for a DRC.
ii. Role

-- 236 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-8
The role of the Facilitator shall be non-adversarial. The Facilitator shall assist the
parties in fashioning an acceptable resolution to the dispute.
iii. Discussions with Facilitator - Off the Record/Non-Precedential
The Facilitator shall review all of the documents exchanged and presented by the
parties, and provide the parties with an opportunity to openly discuss the dispute. All
matters discussed or decided at the DRC, including recommendations, whether
accepted or rejected, and resolutions, shall be off the record and shall have no
precedential effect on any other matter or be admissible or relied upon in any other
matter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties are not precluded from referring to
such a resolution or accepted recommendation orally and in general terms, and
should not refer to specific bases or number of such resolutions or accepted
recommendations reached in other DRCs or initial informal discussions under this
procedure.
g. Document Exchange
At the DRC, the parties shall exchange all documents not previously exchanged
supporting their respective positions. This exchange should continue throughout the
process as documents become known to any of the parties, until such time as the
dispute is finally resolved in accordance with this Agreement. For confidentiality
purposes, and, at the option of either party, all names and other identifying information
may be expunged from any documents exchanged.
h. Resolution
i. If an agreement resolving the matter in dispute is reached by the parties during the
DRC, the Facilitator shall summarize the agreement on the NOD form.
ii. All participants at the DRC shall sign the agreement.
iii. The dispute shall be considered resolved and no further action shall be taken by the
parties on the matter except any action necessary to implement the terms of the
agreement reached between the parties.
iv. The Company shall provide a copy of the completed NOD form to the Flight
Attendant and the APFA representative involved, or, if none, to the APFA Base
President or APFA designee.
i. Failure to Resolve/Facilitator’s Recommendation
i. If no agreement resolving the matter in dispute is reached by the parties during the
DRC, the Facilitator shall issue a written, non-binding recommendation.
ii. The recommendation shall be issued as a separate document apart from the NOD
form.
iii. The Facilitator shall issue the recommendation at the conclusion of the DRC, unless
otherwise agreed to by the parties, and in no event shall the recommendation be
issued later than three (3) working days following the conclusion of the DRC.
iv. A copy of the recommendation, when issued, shall be provided to the Flight
Attendant(s), and to both the Company and the APFA locally.

-- 237 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-9
j. Acceptance of Facilitator’s Recommendation-Notification/Confirmation
i. The Flight Attendant(s), or the APFA representative, as applicable, shall have five (5)
days exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays, from receipt of the Facilitator’s
recommendation to notify the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, that
the recommendation is accepted.
ii. In the case of an Individual or Group Dispute, the Flight Attendant(s) shall notify the
Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, of her/his acceptance by:
(a) signing the recommendation form indicating her/his acceptance and returning the
completed form to the Flight Service Base Manger, or her/his designee;
(b) orally notifying the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, either in
person or by telephone; or
(c) authorizing her/his APFA representative to communicate to the Flight Service
Base Manager, or her/his designee, her/his acceptance either orally or in writing.
iii. In the case of a Base Dispute, the APFA representative shall notify the Flight Service
Base Manager, or her/his designee, by:
(a) signing the recommendation form indicating her/his acceptance and returning the
completed form to the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee; or
(b) orally notifying the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, either in
person or by telephone.
iv. In all cases, the acceptance must be communicated within five (5) days, exclusive of
Saturdays and Sundays, from receipt of the Facilitator’s recommendation. In all
cases where the Flight Attendant, or the APFA representative, as applicable, has
communicated her/his acceptance orally, such acceptance must be confirmed in
writing to the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee.
v. Once acceptance is received, the NOD shall be considered resolved and no further
action shall be taken by the parties on the matter except any action necessary to
implement the terms of the recommendation.
vi. A copy of the signed recommendation form and acceptance of the recommendation
shall be provided by the Flight Service Base Manager or her/his designee, to each of
the parties, and to the APFA representative involved; or if none, to the APFA Base
President or APFA designee.
k. Rejection of Facilitator’s Recommendation - Notification/Confirmation
i. In the case of an Individual or Group Dispute, the Flight Attendant(s) shall notify the
Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, of her/his rejection by:
(a) signing the recommendation form indicating her/his rejection and returning the
completed form to the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee;
(b) orally notifying the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, either in
person or by telephone; or

-- 238 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-10
(c) authorizing her/his APFA representative to communicate to the Flight Service
Base Manager, or her/his designee, her/his rejection either orally or in writing.
ii. In the case of a Base Dispute, the APFA Representative shall notify the Flight
Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, of her/his rejection by:
(a) signing the recommendation form indicating her/his designee, of her/his rejection
and returning the completed form to the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his
designee; or
(b) orally notifying the Flight Service Base Manager, or her/his designee, either in
person or by telephone.
iii. In the event the Flight Attendant or APFA Representative, as applicable, provides no
response within ten (10) days, exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays, following receipt
of the recommendation, the recommendation shall be deemed rejected and dispute
may be submitted to the System Board for adjudication.
iv. In any case where a recommendation has been rejected, the Company shall provide
a copy of the signed rejected recommendation to APFA Headquarters within five (5)
working days of receipt; or if no written response is forthcoming within ten (10) days,
exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays, from issuance of the recommendation, the
Company shall notify APFA Headquarters in writing, within five (5) working days, that
such recommendation has been deemed rejected.
v. In all cases where a recommendation has been rejected, for record keeping
purposes, the Flight Attendant(s) or the APFA Representative, as applicable, shall
submit a signed copy of such rejection within thirty (30) days following receipt of the
recommendation.
l. Observers at a DRC
i. The parties recognize that the attendance of an observer may affect the conduct and
informality of a DRC. Accordingly, as a rule, observers will not attend DRCs, but in
the event that an observer is in attendance, the following shall apply:
ii. A single observer for each side can attend a DRC for training purposes only either as
a trainee or as a trainer of a participant, as described herein.
iii. An individual who has filed a NOD shall have the right to exclude observers from the
DRC.
iv. Unless otherwise mutually agreed, an individual is limited to attending one (1)
session of a DRC(s) as an observer trainee and only within that individual’s division.
It is agreed that a session shall be limited to one (1) day.
v. A DRC shall not be rescheduled to accommodate the attendance of an observer.
vi. If either party elects to have an observer in attendance at a DRC, such party shall
notify the other party of the identity of such observer no later than three (3) days,
exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays, prior to the DRC. If the scheduling of the DRC
precludes such notice, then notice shall be given as soon as practicable.
vii. It is agreed that an observer at a DRC is not a participant. Therefore, such individual
may not speak or otherwise participate in the DRC or call for or participate in breaks.

-- 239 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-11
viii. If the observer does not comply with the conditions of this Letter of Agreement, then
at the request of any participant, the observer may be excluded.
6. Submission to System Board
Once the recommendation has been rejected, the NOD may be submitted as a grievance to
the System Board of Adjustment (SBA), as provided for in System Board of Adjustment,
Section 31. The submission of a dispute to the SBA must be made within thirty (30) days of
APFA Headquarters receipt of the rejected recommendation. The submission to the SBA
shall include a formal and specific grievance statement, including the matter at issue and the
remedy sought, the NOD, and a copy of all documents exchanged to date.
7. Conversion of Individual, Group and Base Disputes to Presidential Grievances
At any time after a NOD is filed in accordance with Paragraph A, and prior to submission
to the SBA, APFA may determine that a particular dispute involves a contractual or a
policy issue which cannot be resolved at a local level and should be converted to a
Presidential Grievance. In such case, a formal and specific statement of grievance shall
be filed, and the dispute processed in accordance with the Presidential Grievance
procedures detailed herein. The Company may recommend that a NOD is
appropriate for conversion to a Presidential Grievance, and the APFA shall consider the
Company’s recommendation.
B. DISCHARGES, CONTRACT DISPUTES AND DISCHARGE/PRESIDENTIAL GRIEVANCES
1. Discharge
a. Notification of Discharge/Request for Investigation and Hearing
A Flight Attendant shall not be discharged from the service of the Company without written
notification of such action which shall contain the precise charges, or without an
investigation and hearing thereon, provided that such Flight Attendant makes written
request for such investigation and hearing within ten (10) days, exclusive of Saturdays
and Sundays, after receipt of notification. A copy of such discharge will be sent to the
APFA Base President and the APFA Regional Representative, simultaneously, with
employee notification, unless the employee being discharged requests otherwise.
i. Hearing Officer
Such written request for an investigation and hearing shall be addressed to, and such
hearing conducted by, the Managing Director, Inflight, or their designee.
ii. Investigation and Hearing Held Within Ten (10) Days
Such investigation and hearing shall be held within ten (10) days, exclusive of
Saturdays and Sundays, of the receipt of the Flight Attendant’s written request
therefore.
b. Hearing
At the hearing, both parties shall present an explanation of their respective positions by
describing the evidence and setting forth their arguments. The Company shall present its

-- 240 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-12
explanation first. Should either party desire to call a witness or witnesses to give testimony
in support of their respective position, such witness shall be subject to questioning by the
other party.
c. Document Exchange
i. Documents supporting the respective positions of the parties may be exchanged at the
hearing at the option of either party.
i.ii. For confidentiality purposes, and, at the option of either party, all names and other
identifying information may be redacted expunged from any documents
exchanged. It was agreed, that in a spirit of cooperation and in an effort to promote
a mutually respectful and trusting working relationship, the Company and APFA
will encourage their representatives to fully exchange all documents, including
video and audio, used in support of their respective positions at all First Level
Discharge Hearings. Should a problem subsequently develop as a result of this
exchange of information, the Company and/or the APFA may elect not to exchange
such information at First Level Hearings in the future, at either party’s option,
consistent with the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The evidence
will not be distributed or disclosed to any party not involved in the grievance and
system board hearings.
iii. If the Company does not exchange a copy of the video/audio evidence, then the
Company will allow the APFA to view video or listen to audio evidence remotely
on request as often as necessary.
d. Decision
The official conducting the hearing shall render a decision as soon as possible but no later
than ten (10) days, exclusive of Saturdays and Sundays, after the close of such hearing.
e. Appeal
If the decision of the Managing Director, Inflight, or their designee, is not satisfactory to
the Flight Attendant, the matter may be appealed to the American Airlines Flight Attendant
SBA as provided for in System Board of Adjustment, Section 31, provided said appeal
must be submitted within thirty (30) days of receipt of the decision of the Managing
Director, Inflight, or their designee.
f. Withhold from Service
A Flight Attendant may be held out of service by the Company pending such investigation,
hearing and the appeals therefrom.
g. Exoneration
i. Reinstatement
If, as a result of any hearing or appeal therefrom, as provided herein, a Flight Attendant
is exonerated, the Flight Attendant shall, if they had been held out of service, be
reinstated without loss of seniority and shall be paid for such time lost in an amount
which the Flight Attendant would have ordinarily earned had they been continued in
service during such period.
ii. Personnel Record

-- 241 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-13
If, as a result of any hearing, or appeal therefrom, as provided herein, the Flight
Attendant shall be exonerated, the personnel record shall be cleared of the charges.
2. Presidential Grievances
a. Filing
The APFA National President may protest, in writing, to the Vice President of Labor
Relations, of the Company any action of the Company or any alleged misapplication or
misinterpretation of this Agreement within ninety (90) forty-five (45) days after such
alleged action, misapplication or misinterpretation has been ascertained.
b. Decision
The Vice President of Labor Relations shall evaluate such grievance and render a
decision, in writing, within twenty (20) days after it has been received.
c. Appeal
If the decision of the Vice President of Labor Relations is not satisfactory, an appeal may
be made, in writing, within twenty (20) days to the SBA, as provided in System Board of
Adjustment, Section 31.
2. Contract Disputes
Filing/Conversion
Once the matter (whether converted or originally filed as a Contract Dispute) has been
heard at the Grievance Determination Conference, if the matter remains unresolved the
APFA National President may submit the dispute to the SBA by submitting a written
statement to the Managing Director of Labor Relations or their designee within thirty days
(30) from the later of the date of notification of the conversion or the completion of the
Grievance Determination Conference process for that matter.
3. General
a. Failure to Appeal Within Time Limits
If any decision made by the Company under the provisions of Section 30 is not appealed
by the Flight Attendant(s) affected within the time limits prescribed herein for such
appeals, the decision of the Company shall become final and binding.
b. Time Limits
It is agreed by the parties hereto that the periods of time for hearings, decisions, and
appeals established in Section 30, shall be considered as maximum periods of time and
that when hearings, decisions and appeals can be handled in a period of time less than
the maximum time stipulated, every effort will be made to expedite such cases.
c. Stenographic Reports
When it is mutually agreed that a stenographic report is to be taken of the investigation
and hearing, in whole or in part, the cost will be borne equally by both parties to the

-- 242 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
30-14
dispute. In the event it is not mutually agreed that a stenographic report of the
proceedings shall be taken, any written record available taken of such investigation and
hearing shall be furnished to the other party to the dispute upon request, provided that the
cost of such written record so requested shall be borne equally by both parties to the
dispute.
d. Representation at Hearings
Employees covered by this Agreement may be represented at hearings by such person
or persons as they may choose and designate, and the Company may be represented by
such person or persons as it may designate. Evidence may be presented either orally or
in writing, or both, and through witnesses.
e. Grievance Matters to be in Writing
All matters handled under the procedure provided for in Paragraph B, shall be in writing
and shall be signed by the employee or a representative designated by the employee,
and all decisions shall be in writing.
f. Representatives/Witnesses
When, under the operation of this Agreement, a Flight Attendant is chosen to act as the
representative of, or witness for, another Flight Attendant against whom charges have
been proffered, such Flight Attendant shall, when the requirements of the service permit,
be given leave of absence of a time sufficient to permit the Flight Attendant to appear as
such representative or witness.
g. Submission to the System Board
All submissions to the SBA shall be made in accordance with the provisions of System
Board of Adjustment, Section 31.

-- 243 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-1
SECTION 31 - SYSTEM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
A. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
In compliance with Section 204, Title II, of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, there is hereby
established a System Board of Adjustment for the purpose of adjusting and deciding disputes which
may arise under the terms of this Agreement and which are properly submitted to it, which Board
shall be known as the American Airlines Flight Attendant System Board of Adjustment, hereinafter
referred to as the System Board.
B. JURISDICTION OF THE SYSTEM BOARD
1. General
a. Scope
The System Board as constituted in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall
have jurisdiction over disputes between any employee covered by this Agreement and
the Company growing out of grievances or out of interpretation or application of any of the
terms of this Agreement. The jurisdiction of the System Board shall not extend to
proposed changes in hours of employment, rates of compensation, or working conditions
covered by existing agreements between the parties hereto.
b. Definitions. As used in the Section:
i. Arbitration Hearing is defined as a meeting of the System Board held for the purpose
of adjusting and deciding disputes which may arise under the terms of this Agreement.
ii. Session is defined as a series of arbitration hearings held for the purpose of adjusting
and deciding Individual, Group and Base disputes NODs pending before the Quarterly
System Board as defined in Paragraph B.3.
iii. Executive Session is defined as any meeting of the System Board wherein the
participants are limited to the members of the System Board.
2. System Board Consideration of Presidential, Contract or Discharge Grievance
The System Board shall consider any dispute properly submitted to it by the APFA National
President or by the Company when such dispute has not been previously settled in
accordance with the terms provided for in this Agreement.
2.3. Quarterly System Board Consideration of a Dispute - NODs
a. Individual, Group and Base Disputes
The Quarterly System Board shall consider and have jurisdiction over any Individual, Group
or Base dispute NOD, as defined in Dispute Resolution and Grievance Procedures, Section
30, properly submitted to it by the APFA National President in accordance with the terms
provided for in this Agreement. Regular sessions of the Quarterly System Board shall be
scheduled once each quarter for the purpose of considering all Individual, Group and Base
disputes properly submitted to the Quarterly System Board when such disputes have not been
previously settled in accordance with the terms provided for in this Agreement. Such regularly
scheduled sessions, hereinafter referred to as the Quarterly System Board, shall take place
once each quarter provided that there are such disputes filed with the Quarterly System Board

-- 244 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-2
for consideration. The Quarterly System Board shall continue in session until all such disputes
before it have been considered unless otherwise mutually agreed upon.
b. Other Disputes
.
The System Board shall consider any other dispute properly submitted to it by the APFA
National President or by the Company when such dispute has not been previously settled
in accordance with the terms provided for in this Agreement.
C. AUTHORITY OF THE SYSTEM BOARD
1. Decisions
Decisions of the System Board in all disputes properly referable to it shall be final and binding
upon the parties thereto.
2. Majority Vote
A majority vote of all members of a System Board shall be competent to make a decision.
3. All Judgments Rendered Without Prejudice
It is understood and agreed that each and every System Board Member shall be free to
discharge her/his duty in an independent manner, without fear that her/his relations with the
Company or with the employees may be affected in any manner by any action taken by
him/her in good faith in her/his capacity as a System Board Member.
D. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS OF THE SYSTEM BOARD
1. Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner
There is hereby established the position of Commissioner of the System Board and the
position of Deputy Commissioner of the System Board. The Commissioner and the Deputy
Commissioner are hereby deemed the Administrative Officers of the System Board.
2. Terms of Office
The APFA National Vice President and the Vice President of Labor Relations, or their
respective designees, shall act as the Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner of the
System Board. The Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner once designated shall
serve for one (1) year or until a successor has been duly appointed and designated. The
office of Commissioner shall be filled and held alternately by the APFA and by the Company.
When the APFA is acting as the Commissioner, the Company shall act as the Deputy
Commissioner for the System Board, and vice versa.
3. Duties and Authority
a. Administrative Duties
The Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner shall be charged with coordinating the
administrative functions of the System Board, including the appointment of arbitrators and
the scheduling of arbitration hearing dates. The Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner
shall have the right to delegate some or all of their responsibilities or duties to a designee,
provided such delegation is promptly communicated to the other party.

-- 245 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-3
b. Record Keeping
The Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner shall maintain a complete record of all
disputes submitted to the System Board for its consideration and of all findings and
decisions made by it.
4. Expenses of the System Board
The Commissioner APFA and the Deputy Commissioner Company, acting jointly, shall have
the authority to incur such expenses, as in their judgment, may be deemed necessary for the
proper conduct of the business of the System Board, and such expenses shall be borne one-
half (1/2) by each of the parties hereto.
E. COMPOSITION OF THE SYSTEM BOARD
1. Appointment of Three (3) Member System Board
The System Board, in a given dispute(s) shall consist of three (3) members; one (1) of whom
shall be appointed by APFA; one (1) of whom shall be appointed by the Company; and, one
(1) of whom shall be an arbitrator appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 31.
Such appointees shall be known as System Board Members.
2. Invocation of Five (5) Member System Board
If either the APFA or the Company desires in a given dispute(s) a System Board comprised
of two (2) Company members, two (2) APFA members, and the appointed arbitrator, such
party shall invoke such System Board upon ten (10) days' written notification to the opposing
party. The invocation of a five (5) member System Board from time to time on a case by case
basis shall not constitute cause for dispensing with the provisions of Paragraph E.1 in any
other dispute(s).
F. CHAIRPERSON OF THE SYSTEM BOARD
In a dispute properly submitted to the System Board, it shall be the duty of the Commissioner and
the Deputy Commissioner Company and APFA to endeavor to reach agreement on the
appointment of an arbitrator to sit as a member of the System Board and to serve as its
Chairperson for the purpose of reaching a final decision on the dispute(s) pending before the
System Board. The Chairperson shall preside at all arbitration hearings and Executive Sessions
of the System Board involving such dispute(s) and shall have a vote in connection with all actions
taken by the System Board on that dispute(s).
G. APFA AND COMPANY SYSTEM BOARD MEMBERS
1. Leaves of Absence and Travel
The APFA and Company System Board Members who are employees of the Company shall
be granted necessary leaves of absence for the performance of their duties as System Board
Members. So far as space is available, System Board Members shall be furnished free
transportation over the lines of the Company for the purpose of attending arbitration hearings
and Executive Sessions of the System Board, to the extent permitted by law.
2. Disposition of System Board Member Expenses
Each of the parties hereto will assume the compensation, travel expense and other expenses

-- 246 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-4
of the System Board Members appointed by it.
3. Notification
The Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA shall each notify the other
of the individual(s) appointed to serve as System Board Members for a given dispute(s).
H. TERMS OF OFFICE - SYSTEM BOARD MEMBERS
1. Quarterly System Board
The Quarterly System Board Members shall serve for one (1) year from the date of their
appointment or until their successors have been duly appointed. Quarterly System Board
Member vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as provided herein for the appointment
of the original Quarterly System Board Members.
2. Discharge, Contract Dispute, and Presidential Grievances
The System Board Members charged with deciding Discharge, Contract Dispute, and
Presidential Grievances shall serve on an ad hoc, case by case, basis.
I. SUBMISSION OF DISPUTES
1. Content of Submissions
All disputes properly referred to the System Board for consideration shall be addressed served
on the Company and the APFA with a copy to the Commissioner. Five (5) copies of each
petition, including All papers and exhibits in connection there with the grievance shall be
forwarded to the Commissioner. who shall promptly transmit one (1) copy thereof to the
Deputy Commissioner and each member of the System Board. Each submission shall include:
a. NOD Individual, Group and Base Disputes
i. A formal and specific grievance statement, including:
(a) Question or questions at issue;
(b) Statement of facts;
(c) Remedy sought.
ii. Copies of all documents exchanged between the parties to date.
iii. Notice of Dispute.
b. Discharge, Contract and Presidential Grievances
i. Question or questions at issue.
ii. Statement of facts.
iii. Position of employee, employees or the APFA.
iv. Position of the Company.
v. Copies of all documents exchanged between the parties to date.

-- 247 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-5
2. Joint and Separate Submissions
When possible, joint submissions should be made, but if the parties are unable to agree upon
a joint submission, then either party may submit the dispute and its position to the System
Board, provided however, that such separate submissions must be made within thirty (30) days
from the date of the Commissioner’s receipt of the original submission. No dispute shall be
considered by the System Board which has not first been handled in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, including, as applicable, the rendering of a decision or the issuing
of a recommendation by the Company.
3. Company Petition
Notwithstanding the foregoing Paragraph I, in no way shall the Company’s right to file a petition
to the System Board be affected.
J. PANEL OF ARBITRATORS
1. Panel
The Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA shall endeavor to maintain
at all times a panel of eleven (11) arbitrators that are mutually acceptable to act as the
Chairperson of the System Board and from whom dates of availability are routinely obtained.
Appointment of an arbitrator as a System Board Member will be based upon mutual agreement,
rotation and availability.
2. Vacancy/Termination
If a vacancy occurs on this panel, the Commissioner Company and Deputy Commissioner the
APFA will endeavor to agree upon an arbitrator to fill such vacancy within thirty (30) days. Each
arbitrator shall serve as a member of this panel for an indefinite term; either the Commissioner
or Deputy Commissioner Company or the APFA may cause the services of an arbitrator to be
terminated (except as to disputes already submitted to the arbitrator) by giving written notice
to the other party and to the arbitrator.
Should the Company and the Union fail to reach agreement on the appointment of an arbitrator
to sit on the arbitration panel, the Vice President of Labor Relations and the APFA National
President, or their respective designees, shall, within ten (10) days of the parties jointly
determining they are unable to agree on appointment of an arbitrator to fill a panel vacancy,
meet to review the reasons for the failure of the parties to reach agreement on the appointment
of the arbitrator, and to make a final attempt to reach agreement prior to petitioning the
National Mediation Board.
3 Petition to National Mediation Board (NMB)
If, within ten (10) days of the meeting described above, the Vice President of Labor Relations
and the APFA National President have failed to reach agreement on the appointment of an
arbitrator, the System Board Commissioner shall petition the NMB for a list of seven (7)
arbitrators who, in addition to other credentials, are members of the National Academy of
Arbitrators.
4. Appointment of Ad Hoc Arbitrator
In the appointment of an arbitrator, the Commissioner Company and Deputy Commissioner the
APFA should attempt to reach agreement from among members of this panel; however, nothing

-- 248 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-6
in this Section shall prohibit the Commissioner Company and Deputy Commissioner the APFA
from agreeing to utilize an ad hoc arbitrator for a particular dispute(s).
K. APPOINTMENT OF ARBITRATOR, LOCATION AND NOTICE OF HEARINGS
1. Quarterly System Boards (QSB)
a. Chairperson/Standing Arbitrator
i. Appointment of Standing Arbitrator
The appointment of a standing arbitrator to chair the Quarterly System Boards for the
succeeding calendar year must be made no later than forty-five (45) days prior to the
end of the present calendar year.
ii. Termination
Either the Commissioner Company or the Deputy Commissioner APFA may terminate
the services of a standing arbitrator after the first Quarterly System Board or any
Quarterly Session thereafter so long as such termination is made no later than sixty
(60) days prior to the next scheduled session of the Quarterly System Board. In such
event, the Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA will promptly
agree upon the appointment of another arbitrator, either from the panel of arbitrators
or an ad hoc arbitrator, to Chair the Quarterly System Boards. Should the parties fail
to reach agreement within fifteen (15) days, the provisions prescribed herein will be
utilized to retain the services of an arbitrator for the remainder of the calendar year.
The newly appointed standing arbitrator will chair the next session of the Quarterly
System Board, or if unavailable, the succeeding Quarterly System Board. If such
arbitrator is unavailable for part or all of that initial session of the Quarterly System
Board, during such period of unavailability, the parties will mutually agree upon an
arbitrator to temporarily chair that part of the Quarterly System Board for which the
newly appointed arbitrator is unavailable.
b. Location and Frequency of Arbitration QSB Hearings
The Quarterly System Board shall meet in the city where the General Offices of American
Airlines, Inc. are maintained, unless a different location is agreed upon by the
Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner.Company and the APFA. The Quarterly
System Board will meet at least quarterly for up to two (2) days per session.
c. Notice of Arbitration Hearings/Docket
Upon receipt of notice of the submission of a dispute, the Commissioner shall set a date
for the arbitration hearing, which shall be at the time of the next regular session of the
Quarterly System Board and such dispute shall be considered docketed for hearing. If
the APFA National President or the Vice President of Labor Relations consider the dispute
of sufficient urgency and importance, and the dispute has been docketed but not heard
due to time constraints during at least one (1) prior session of the Quarterly System Board,
either party may request an arbitration hearing at an earlier date. Such earlier date shall
be at such a time and place agreed upon by the Commissioner Company and Deputy
Commissioner the APFA, but not more than fifteen (15) days after such request for an
arbitration hearing is made. The Commissioner shall give the necessary notices, in
writing, of such arbitration hearing to the System Board Members and to the parties to the
dispute.

-- 249 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-7
d. Pre-Arbitration Conference
Prior to each session of the Quarterly System Board, representatives from Headquarters
Flight Service, Labor Relations and the APFA will confer by phone, or in person if mutually
agreed upon, to review all grievances submitted to date. All parties will use their best
efforts to facilitate and expedite the processing of disputes before the System Board.
e.d. QSB Protocol
In order to hear and resolve disputes in an expeditious manner, the parties have agreed
that the following procedures will apply:
i. Arbitration hearings will begin each day at 0900 and continue until all disputes on the
day’s docket have been heard, unless otherwise agreed to by the presenters;
ii. The disputes will be heard in the order in which they appear on the day’s docket, with
the oldest dispute scheduled first;
iii. To expedite the hearing of each dispute by resolving preliminary procedural matters
prior to hearing, the presenters on each side will meet prior to the arbitration hearing
date to review and discuss all disputes to be heard, including all documents to be
introduced in the hearing, preliminary motions, etc. Presenters should openly discuss
their proposed dispute presentations in order to foster a full understanding of the
relative merits of each side’s dispute. It is anticipated that this full and frank exchange
will expedite the hearing of these disputes and, wherever possible, stimulate dispute
resolutions prior to hearing.
The presenters will stipulate in writing to all facts and issues not in dispute, including
relevant Company policies, background information on the grievant and all other
witnesses, and any other uncontested information that is relevant to the dispute. In
the event the parties have filed separate submissions, the presenters should attempt
to agree to a joint statement of the issue. These stipulations are to be submitted to the
Quarterly System Board at the beginning of the hearing in each dispute. Should written
stipulations on a specific dispute not be accomplished by the presenters prior to
hearing, the Quarterly System Board will proceed with the next dispute(s) in order on
the docket pending the presenters’ completion of the necessary stipulations;
iv. Each presenter will use her/his best efforts to list her/his opening statement to five (5)
minutes, but in no event shall the opening statement exceed ten (10) minutes. The
closing summation shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes;
v. The Company and APFA agree that no taped or stenographic transcripts will be taken
during the first two (2) sessions of the Quarterly System Board convened pursuant to
this Agreement. Thereafter, as a rule, taped or stenographic transcripts will not be
taken;
vi. The presenters will use oral closing summations rather than written briefs, unless the
Commissioner Company and Deputy Commissioner APFA mutually agree that written
briefs should be used in a specific case;
vii. Decisions in each case will be issued on the day of the hearing, unless the Quarterly
System Board agrees otherwise. The Quarterly System Board will use best efforts to
limit Executive Sessions to thirty (30) minutes for each case.

-- 250 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-8
All majority decisions of the Quarterly System Board will be final and binding and made
with precedent, unless otherwise noted by the Quarterly System Board in its written
decision.
e. Conversion to Presidential Grievance
i. If, at any time prior to submission to the System Board, the APFA elects to convert a
particular Individual, Group, or Base Dispute NOD to a Presidential Grievance, the
procedures in Section 30 governing Presidential Grievances shall apply.
ii. If, after submission to the System Board, the APFA elects to convert a particular
Individual, Group, or Base grievance NOD to a Presidential Grievance, the grievance
shall, within forty-five (45) days of notice of conversion to the Company, be scheduled
for a Pre-Arbitration Conference. Should the Company desire to file a separate
submission to the System Board, such submission shall be filed within thirty (30) days
following the date of the Pre-Arbitration Conference.
2. Discharge Grievances
a. Appointment of Arbitrator/Hearing Date
The Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA shall, within forty-five
(45) days from the date of APFA’s submission, agree on the appointment of an arbitrator
to chair the System Board and schedule the arbitration hearing date of a Discharge
grievance. The scheduled hearing date may be outside this forty-five (45) day time limit.
b. Exception: Underlying Dispute
For a discharge grievance arising from an underlying policy or contractual dispute which
is currently pending between the Company and the APFA, the arbitration hearing on the
discharge may be held in abeyance until the policy or contractual dispute between the
Company and the APFA has been resolved in accordance with this Agreement.
c. Location of Arbitration Hearing
In discharge disputes, the System Board shall meet in the city where the discharged
employee was based, unless otherwise agreed to by the Commissioner Company and
the APFA. Deputy Commissioner.
d. Notice of Arbitration Hearing/Docket
Discharge grievances shall be scheduled for arbitration hearing at such place and time
agreed upon by the Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA as
provided for in Paragraph 2.a above. The Commissioner shall distribute the necessary
dockets, in writing, with the time and place of such arbitration hearing, to the System
Board Members and to the parties to the dispute.
3. Presidential Grievances
a. Headquarters Pre-Arbitration Conference
Within forty-five (45) days of the APFA’s submission of a Presidential Grievance to the
System Board, a Headquarters Pre-Arbitration Conference shall be held with the APFA
National President or their designee(s) and the Vice President of Labor Relations, or their
designee(s). At such conference, the parties shall exchange all documents known to the

-- 251 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-9
parties at the time which are used in support of their respective positions. For
confidentiality purposes, and, at the option of either party, all names and other identifying
information may be expunged from any such documents exchanged.
b. Appointment of Arbitrator/Hearing Date
The Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA shall, within forty-five
(45) days from the date of the APFA’s request for arbitration, agree on the appointment
of an arbitrator to chair the System Board and schedule the arbitration hearing date of the
Presidential Grievance. The scheduled hearing date may be outside this forty-five (45)
day time limit.
c. Location of Arbitration Hearing
The System Board shall meet in the city where the General Offices of American Airlines,
Inc. are maintained, unless a different location is agreed upon by the Company and APFA.
d. Notice of Arbitration Hearing/Docket
Presidential Grievances shall be scheduled for an arbitration hearing at such place and
time agreed upon by the Company and the APFA. The Commissioner shall distribute the
necessary dockets, in writing, with the time and place of such hearing, to the System
Board Members and to the parties to the dispute.
4. Contract Disputes
a. Appointment of Arbitrator/Hearing Date
The Company and APFA shall, within forty-five (45) days from the date of the APFA’s
request, agree on the appointment of an arbitrator to chair the System Board and schedule
the arbitration hearing date of the Contract Dispute. The scheduled hearing date may be
outside this forty-five (45) day time limit.
c.b. Location of Arbitration Hearing
The System Board shall meet in the city where the General Offices of American Airlines,
Inc. are maintained, unless a different location is agreed upon by the Commissioner
Company and APFA. the Deputy.
c. Notice of Arbitration Hearing/Docket
The Contract Dispute shall be scheduled for an arbitration hearing at such place and time
agreed upon by the Company and the APFA.
d. Notice of Arbitration Hearing/Docket
Presidential Grievances shall be scheduled for an arbitration hearing at such place and
time agreed upon by the Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner. The
Commissioner shall distribute the necessary dockets, in writing, with the time and place
of such hearing, to the System Board Members and to the parties to the dispute.
L. PROCEDURE FOR BREAKING DEADLOCK IN THE APPOINTMENT OF AN ARBITRATOR
If the process provided for in Paragraphs K.1.a.i, K.2.a, K.3.b, and K.4.a fails to produce agreement
on an arbitrator to chair a hearing, through the process of elimination, the Company and the Union

-- 252 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-10
will appoint an arbitrator by alternately striking an equal number of the arbitrators from the list of
the eleven (11) member panel already agreed upon by the parties. The parties will alternate who
strikes first for each matter.
Should the Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner fail to reach agreement on the
appointment of an arbitrator to chair an arbitration hearing(s) of the System Board as provided in
Paragraphs K.1.a.i, K.2.a, and K.3.b, the Vice President of Labor Relations and the APFA
National President, or their respective designees, shall, within ten (10) days of the expiration of
the time limits as provided in Paragraphs K.1.a.i, K.2.a, and K.3.b, meet to review the reasons for
the failure of the parties to reach agreement on the appointment of the arbitrator, and to make a
final attempt to reach agreement prior to petitioning the National Mediation Board.
1. Petition to National Mediation Board (NMB)
If, within ten (10) days of the meeting described above, the Vice President of Labor
Relations and the APFA National President have failed to reach agreement on the
appointment of an arbitrator, the Commissioner shall petition the NMB for a list of seven (7)
arbitrators who, in addition to other credentials, are members of the National Academy of
Arbitrators. The Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner will have thirty (30) days from
receipt of this list to appoint an arbitrator and schedule the hearing date.
2. Appointment of Arbitrator
Through the process of elimination, with the Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner
alternately striking an equal number of the arbitrators from the list supplied by the NMB, an
arbitrator will be appointed and the case set for hearing at the earliest possible date.
M. SCHEDULING AND POSTPONEMENTS OF ARBITRATION HEARINGS
The Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA agree to use their best efforts
to schedule arbitration hearings at the earliest practical date and to avoid and/or limit, whenever
possible, the number of postponements. Any delay in scheduling or postponement should be for
good cause, i.e., System Board Member, grievant, witness or presenter unavailability due to
sickness, injury, and/or vacation; presenter staffing considerations; or delays pending the resolution
of an outside hearing or resolution of a substantially identical dispute, etc.
N. SCHEDULING CONFERENCE
The primary method of scheduling arbitrations will be on an as needed basis as described in
Section 31.K. Additionally, if needed, the parties shall jointly agree on a mutually convenient time
to hold a Scheduling Conference twice per year—once in February and once in September—to
discuss the scheduling of matters that have been properly submitted to the SBA.
Prior to the Scheduling Conference, the parties shall solicit available dates from the full panel of
neutral System Board members for up to one year from the date of the Scheduling Conference. At
the Scheduling Conference, the parties will agree to strike for arbitrators for a reasonable number
of pending matters and assign cases based on the dates provided by the arbitrators within ten (10)
days of the agreement to assign or, if necessary, and then request additional available dates from
the selected arbitrator(s) for the assigned cases. All matters to be discussed at the Scheduling
Conference must be agreed upon more than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the Scheduling
Conference.
N.O. STENOGRAPHIC REPORTS

-- 253 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-11
When the Commissioner Company and the Deputy Commissioner APFA mutually agree that a
stenographic report is to be taken of a hearing of the System Board, in whole or in part, the cost
will be borne equally by both parties to the dispute. In the event it is not mutually agreed that a
stenographic report of the proceedings shall be taken, any written record available taken of such
System Board hearing shall be furnished to the other party to the dispute upon request, provided
that the cost of such written record so requested shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute.
O.P. REPRESENTATION AND SUMMONING OF WITNESSES
1. Representation
Employees covered by this Agreement may be represented at System Board hearings by
such person or persons as they may choose and designate, and the Company may be
represented by such person or persons as it may choose and designate.
2. Witnesses
a. Summoning of Witnesses
i. On request of individual members of the System Board, the System Board may, by a
majority vote, or shall at the request of either the APFA representative(s) or the
Company representative(s) thereon, summon any witnesses who are employed by the
Company and who may be deemed necessary by the parties in the dispute, or by either
party, or by the System Board itself, or by either group of representatives constituting
the Board.
ii. The number of witnesses summoned at any one time shall not be greater than the
number which can be spared from the operation without interference with the services
of the Company.
b. Disposition of System Board Witness Expenses
Each of the parties hereto will assume the compensation, travel expense and other
expenses of the witnesses called or summoned by it. So far as space is available,
witnesses who are employees of the Company shall receive free transportation over the
lines of the Company from the point of duty or assignment to the point at which they must
appear as witnesses, and return, to the extent permitted by law.
3. Leaves of Absence for Representatives/Witnesses
In a dispute before the System Board, when a Flight Attendant is chosen to act as the
representative of, or witness for, another Flight Attendant, such representative or witness
shall, when the requirements of the service permit, be given leave of absence of a time
sufficient to permit him/her to appear as such representative or witness.
P.Q. EXCHANGE OF DOCUMENTS AND WITNESS LISTS
1. Formal Exchange
Thirty (30) days prior to the date set for an arbitration hearing, the representatives designated
by the parties shall exchange all documents, video, photographic and audio evidence they
intend to enter in support of their respective positions and make available, in writing, the
names of all witnesses they intend to summon whom they deem necessary to the dispute.
Identifying information expunged from previously exchanged documents for reasons of
confidentiality will now be exchanged with all information intact.

-- 254 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
31-12
2. Additional Documents and Witnesses
Nothing herein shall require the representative of either party to present the aforementioned
documents video, photographic or audio evidence or to summon the aforementioned
witnesses during the course of the hearing, nor shall the representatives of either party be
restricted from entering documents or summoning witnesses who become known subsequent
to the thirty (30) day exchange. Such additional documents and the names of such additional
witnesses shall be exchanged at the time such determination is made.
Q.R. EVIDENCE
Evidence may be presented at a System Board hearing either orally, or in writing, or both, and
through witnesses.
R.S. TIME LIMITS
It is agreed by the parties hereto that the periods of time established in Section 31, shall be
considered as maximum periods of time and that when disputes can be handled in a period of time
less than the maximum time stipulated, every effort will be made to expedite such disputes.
S.T. STATEMENT OF EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit, restrict, or abridge the rights or privileges accorded
either to the employees or to the employer, or to their duly accredited representatives, under the
provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, and the failure to decide a dispute under the
procedure established herein shall not, therefore, serve to foreclose any subsequent rights which
such law may afford or which may be established by the National Mediation Board by orders
issued under such law with respect to disputes which are not decided under the procedure
established herein.

-- 255 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
32-1
SECTION 32 - UNION BUSINESS
A. The Company shall provide each active Flight Attendant with an electronic copy of this Agreement,
including any existing Side Letters of Agreement. The electronic version will be available on the
Flight Attendant EFB and the Company intranet (including a QR code). The Company shall provide
a limited number of contracts (fifteen percent (15%) of the total Flight Attendant population by base)
that will be available by request only. In addition, the APFA National Headquarters will be provided
five hundred (500) copies for Flight Attendant distribution. The printed and electronic version of the
agreement will be made available bound in a convenient, durable booklet within ninety (90) days
of the signing of this Agreement.
A jointly prepared On-Duty Contract Guide shall be distributed by the Company to all active Flight
Attendants. The Company shall consult with the APFA National President regarding the selection
of a format, cover, and binding for the printed Agreement. Any Side Letters of Agreement, signed
after the effective date of this Agreement, shall be distributed by the Company to all active Flight
Attendants. Such letters, as jointly agreed to by the APFA and the Company, shall be posted to
the Company intranet.
B. REPORTS
1. Active/Inactive Report
The Company shall provide the APFA National President and the National Treasurer a
sortable monthly electronic list containing Flight Attendant names, employee numbers,
addresses, primary phone contact numbers, crew base, date of hire, status (i.e., active status,
furlough, Company position, Flight Attendants on Company business for a cumulative period
of ninety (90) days, probationary status, type of leave or other inactive status), date of
commencement and actual date of return from leave, and date of birth. This report shall be
due by the twentieth (20th) of the month following the month being reported.
2. Monthly Attrition Report
The Company shall provide the APFA National President and the National Treasurer a
sortable monthly electronic list of Flight Attendant resignations, retirements, terminations and
transfers. Such report shall be in alphabetical order and reflect employee number, date of
resignation, terminations or transfer, the crew base from which the Flight Attendant was
transferred, and the crew base where they are now located shall be noted. A Flight Attendant
transferred to or from management or other Company position shall be so identified. This
report shall be due by the twentieth (20th) of the month following the month being reported.
3. Scheduling/Reserve Reports
The Company shall provide the APFA National President with Scheduling reports or access
to the information, as needed and as mutually agreed upon by the Company and National
Scheduling Chair.
C. A glass covered, locked bulletin board will be provided by the Company in the crew lounges/Inflight
check-in facilities at each crew base for posting of APFA notices. Size and placement of such
boards shall be determined by mutual agreement of the APFA Base President and the Manager,
Inflight Operations.
D. As long as the Company maintains Flight Attendant mailboxes in a base, Official APFA bulletins
may be distributed in the Flight Attendants’ mailboxes if they have been approved for such
distribution by the appropriate Manager, Inflight Operations or their designee.

-- 256 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
32-2
E. APFA representatives shall be afforded an opportunity at the end of each new-hire Flight Attendant
training program to address the new-hire class for a maximum of two (2) hours. This is in addition
to any time allotted for base indoctrination.
F. TRAVEL FOR UNION BUSINESS
Should the Company extend improvements in its union business pass policy to other union
representatives, such improvements shall likewise be extended to APFA representatives.
G. MONTHLY UNION BUSINESS
1. A request by the APFA for the release of a Flight Attendant from duty to conduct Union
business shall be made to the Director of Crew Schedule or their designee. Such request(s)
shall be made by the APFA National President, any APFA National Officer or designee for
Flight Attendant in their crew base. The APFA National or Base President or designee may
supply the Company with a list of Flight Attendants authorized to request their release from
duty to conduct Union business. Such requests for release shall be made to the Company as
far in advance as practicable. A request by the APFA for the release of a Flight Attendant to
conduct union business will not be unreasonably denied.
2. A Lineholder removed from schedule to conduct Union business prior to the closing of PBS
will be paid a daily rate equal to the minimum day as pay and credit. After the closing of PBS,
a Lineholder removed to conduct Union Business on a day scheduled for duty will receive a
daily rate equal to the minimum day or trips missed. A Lineholder conducting Union business
on a day off will be paid an amount as determined by the APFA and such time will be paid as
pay no credit.
3. A Reserve removed from schedule on a RSV day to conduct Union business will be paid at a
daily rate equal to the minimum day as pay and credit. A Reserve conducting Union business
on a day off will be paid an amount as determined by the APFA and such time will be paid as
pay no credit.
4. The Company shall invoice the APFA each month for flight pay loss provided for in Paragraphs
G.1.-3.
5. The APFA will not be invoiced for Flight Attendants released from duty:
a. To inspect hotels pursuant to Crew Accommodations, Section 6.A.4;
b. To serve as a Safety and Security Department (SSD) Committee member for accident
investigations pursuant to Section 34.H.2;
c. To attend the Scheduling Committee meetings pursuant to Scheduling, Section 10.A.2.
6. A Flight Attendant dropping their line for the entire bid period shall receive a pay purposes
only (paper bid) line.
7. If any Company requested meeting is cancelled by the Company with less than two (2)
calendar days, the Company will reimburse the APFA for flight pay loss for the cancelled
meeting day.
H. APFA LOCK-BOX

-- 257 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
32-3
The Company will provide at base stations, a suitable lock-box for APFA mail. The size and type
shall be dependent upon the location at each base station.

-- 258 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
33-1
SECTION 33 - APFA EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM, PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS, AND
DRUG AND ALCHOHOL TESTING
A. APFA EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (“APFA EAP”)
1. The Company shall, upon request, meet with members of the APFA EAP to discuss matters
pertaining to the parties’ respective employee assistance programs including but not limited
to alcohol/drug testing, mental health disorders, professional standards and critical incident
stress management concerns.
2. The Company agrees to provide the APFA EAP Committee copies of Flight Attendant work
group reports when provided by the vendor or other source but no less than twice a year on
EAP and behavioral health care access utilization and case management and CISM metrics.
3. The APFA EAP shall be afforded an opportunity during each new-hire Flight Attendant training
program to address the new-hire class for up to thirty (30) minutes, as part of the new hire
training orientation pursuant to Union Business, Section 32.E.
4. When Flight Service provides Company EAP contact information to a Flight Attendant they
shall also provide APFA EAP contact information to the Flight Attendant. The Company will
include APFA EAP contact information in written communications to the Flight Attendant
regarding disciplinary or dependability/availability issues.
B. DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
1. The Company may require a Flight Attendant to undergo drug and alcohol testing in
accordance with Company policy and/or as required by applicable federal, state, or local laws
and regulations.
2. All alcohol tests shall be performed in accordance with the procedural safeguards which are
no less than those currently in effect under the applicable DOT/FAA regulations. If random
alcohol testing is no longer legally required, the Company may continue to randomly alcohol
test Flight Attendants so long as it maintains procedural safeguards which are no less than
those currently in effect under the applicable DOT/FAA regulations regarding random testing.
3. All DOT/FAA mandated drug testing shall be performed in accordance with DOT/FAA
regulations.
4. In the event of non-DOT/FAA mandated drug testing or if drug testing is no longer required by
the DOT/FAA but the Company nevertheless determines it shall continue drug testing, the
Company will utilize procedural safeguards no less than those currently in effect under the
DOT/FAA regulations, with the exception of the Drug Testing Custody and Control Form.
Nothing herein restricts the substances for which the Flight Attendant may be tested. Flight
Attendants will not be tested for substances for which Pilots are not tested.
5. The Company shall not require a Flight Attendant to submit to a random blood or urine alcohol
test unless such test is legally required.
6. Designated APFA representatives will be authorized by the Company to enter the alcohol
testing site in accordance with DOT/FAA regulations.

-- 259 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
33-2
7. The Company shall meet and confer with the APFA National Vice President or their designee
Union regarding any changes in the drug a n d alcohol testing policies or procedures not
specified in this Agreement prior to implementation and/or publication. In addition, the drug
and alcohol testing policies and procedures shall be added to the Flight Attendant Electronic
Flight Bag (EFB).
8. If permitted by the DOT/FAA, upon request, the Company shall provide the APFA with an
annual de-identified report on DOT/FAA mandated drug and alcohol test statistics, including
how many Flight Attendants were tested and how many were reported positive or refused
testing.
9. In the event the FAA approves a Human Intervention Motivation Study (HIMS) program
applicable to Flight Attendants, the Company shall meet and confer with the APFA regarding
possible implementation of the program.
C. DUTY TIME AND REST
1. A Flight Attendant participating in a drug or alcohol test during the duty period will be
considered to be on duty during the drug or alcohol test.
2. A Flight Attendant participating in a drug or alcohol test prior to or after the completion of a
duty period will not be considered to be on duty during the drug or alcohol test. Such Flight
Attendant will not be considered to be in a rest period.
3. A Flight Attendant participating in a drug or alcohol test after the completion of the Flight
Attendant’s duty period will be released into the Flight Attendant’s rest period fifteen (15)
minutes after the completion of the test. The Flight Attendant whose rest period would be
reduced below their contractual minimum rest because of such a test will be required to call
Crew Schedule with the Flight Attendant’s adjusted rest period commencement time.
4. A Flight Attendant will not be required to participate in a random drug or alcohol test prior to
the commencement of a duty period.
B. PAY FOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
A Flight Attendant will be paid fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each random drug or alcohol test they
are required to undergo after the Flight Attendant’s release from duty. There will be no credit
associated with the test or the payment.
C. PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS
1. If the Company becomes aware of an interpersonal relationship conflict between Flight
Attendants or between a Flight Attendant and a member of another employee group, the
Company may elect to refer the dispute to the APFA EAP Professional Standards Committee
(“EAP/PS”).
2. When a dispute is referred to the EAP/PS, the EAP/PS shall have up to thirty (30) calendar
days to resolve the dispute. The Company and the EAP/PS may mutually agree in writing to
extend this time. During the designated period, the Company shall refrain from taking any
action it may have commenced or contemplated taking, unless further information becomes
known that would alter the facts as understood by the Company at the time it agreed to the
referral.
3. At or before the end of the designated period, the EAP/PS shall make a written report to the
Senior Manager, Inflight Operations, or, if the crew base has no Senior Manager, to the

-- 260 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
33-3
Manager, Inflight Operations or their designee stating only that "the problem is resolved" or
that "the EAP/PS is unable to resolve the matter and cannot be of further assistance."
4. If the EAP/PS reports that it is unable to resolve the matter or does not supply a written report
to the Senior Manager, Inflight Operations, or, if the crew base has no Senior Manager, to the
Manager, Inflight Operations or their designee, at or before the end of the designated period,
then the dispute reverts back to the Company for resolution. In cases where the Company
elects to commence or continue disciplinary proceedings, the delay caused by the EAP/PS’s
involvement shall not be raised by the APFA as a defense, nor will the Company assert any
failure of the EAP/PS to arrive at a successful resolution as supporting the Company’s
position. The Company shall not require any EAP/PS member to provide information
regarding what transpired during the EAP/PS proceeding.

-- 261 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
34-1
SECTION 34 - SAFETY AND SECURITY DEPARTMENT (SSD)
A. The APFA National President or their designee will be advised of all areas relating to safety. As
changes to the environment affecting the Flight Attendants are known, the APFA National President
or their designee will be advised. The Company and the APFA will continue to work together in a
cooperative manner regarding safety issues.
B. The Company shall consider the recommendations of the SSD in all matters affecting the safety of
Flight Attendants. The Company and the SSD shall meet quarterly at mutually agreeable times,
dates and locations to study and evaluate matters relating to the safety, health and security of Flight
Attendants.
C. The APFA National President and the SSD Chairperson or a designee shall be invited to attend
the annual mock Recurrent training session and offer suggestions for changes or improvements.
The SSD Chairperson Coordinator shall be notified of any new or modified security or safety
training for Flight Attendants and provided an opportunity to make recommendations.
D. The APFA National President and the SSD Chairperson or a designee shall be permitted to attend
AA/FAA full or partial aircraft certification demonstrations, including new emergency evacuation
procedures, and shall be notified promptly upon the event being scheduled.
E. The Company will consult with the APFA National President or their designee on the cabin
configuration and interior design of galley/safety areas as they pertain to Flight Attendant
responsibilities and duties for any new equipment it may consider putting into service, prior to a
final resolution of the equipment specifications. The Company will consult with the APFA National
President or their designee, prior to a final resolution of the equipment specifications, when
considering major modifications of the interior design of existing equipment that will impact how
Flight Attendants carry out duties and responsibilities, such as, but not limited to, galley
configurations, cabin seating configuration, jumpseat and lavatory locations, and the location of
emergency equipment. The Company shall give due consideration to the APFA’s
recommendations.
F. Reasonable efforts shall be made to standardize the configuration of safety/emergency equipment
on each series within a type of aircraft.
G. The SSD shall be allowed to inspect any aircraft on which the Company requires a Flight Attendant
to work.
H. AIRCRAFT ACCIDENT, HIJACKING INCIDENT,OR TERRORIST INCIDENT, OR SERIOUS
INCIDENT
1. The Company, upon notification of any Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, Terrorist serious
incident, or Serious hijacking or terrorist Incident in which a Flight Attendant is involved shall
notify the APFA National President, APFA SSD Chairperson, Coordinator, and APFA EAP
Representative. The Senior Manager, Inflight Operations, or their designee, shall contact the
APFA Base President when Flight Attendant(s) assigned to their respective base or involved
in such accidents/incidents, emergency evacuation, or when a Flight Attendant is injured. If
the APFA Base President is unavailable, the Senior Manager, Inflight Operations, or their
designee, shall contact the APFA Base Vice President. In the event the APFA Base Vice
President is unavailable, the Senior Manager, Inflight Operations, or their designee, shall
contact APFA Headquarters. By mutual agreement, the Company and the APFA, may agree
upon an alternate notification process. Names, employee numbers, and Inflight Managers of
the Flight Attendants will be provided to the APFA. These incidents are defined below:

-- 262 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
34-2
a. Aircraft Accident: Any and all occurrences associated with the Company’s operation of
an aircraft in which any person suffers death or serious injury, or in which the aircraft
receives substantial damage.
b. Hijacking Incident and/or Terrorist Incident: Seizure or attempted seizure of a Company
aircraft with Flight Attendants on board by actual or threatened force of violence.
c. Serious Incident: An incident with Flight Attendants on board a Company aircraft involving
any of the following:
i. Serious injury to a Flight Attendant or any incident where medical personnel are called
to an aircraft to assess a Flight Attendant;
ii. Actual evacuation or cabin preparation for evacuation;
iii. Fire and/or smoke on board resulting in injuries;
iv. Physical assault of a Flight Attendant by a passenger(s);
v. Aircraft decompression;
vi. Turbulence resulting in injuries to crew members or passengers;
vii. Bomb threats;
viii. Death on board; or
ix. Any specific terrorist threat assessment issued and permitted to be released by any
government agency.
2. In the event of an Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, Terrorist serious Incident, or Serious
Incident hijacking involving Flight Attendants, the Company shall release from duty at least
two (2) SSD members, or their designees for purposes of accident investigation and at least
two (2) EAP representatives, as designated by the APFA National President. Such Flight
Attendants currently operating a sequence shall be released from duty as soon as possible,
but no later than the last leg of the duty period on the same day that the Company contacted
the APFA about the Aircraft Accident/Incident. The Company shall provide those Flight
Attendants with round trip positive space on-line transportation to and from the airport nearest
the aircraft accident or other travel arrangements made by the Company to expedite arrival at
the site for other Company personnel. The Company shall assume responsibility for lodging,
meal, and other expenses incurred by the APFA accident investigators. Such reimbursement
will be consistent with Company policy.
3. Subject to NTSB limitations, the SSD shall be allowed to inspect any aircraft accident crash
site. In the event of any Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, Terrorist accident, serious
Incident, or Serious Incident hijacking involving Flight Attendants in a foreign country, the
Company will make the necessary requests to include the APFA SSD Chairperson
Coordinator or their designee and the APFA EAP Chairperson Coordinator or their designee
among those with access to the site.
4. In the event of any Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, Terrorist Incident, accident or serious
incident (as defined in this Paragraph H) the Company will allow immediate access to Flight

-- 263 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
34-3
Attendant(s) by APFA EAP, with the Flight Attendant’s consent, either in person or by phone
if no APFA EAP is on site.
5. A Flight Attendant has the right to request APFA representation when they have been involved
in an Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, Terrorist Incident, or Serious Incident.
6. Subject to NTSB limitations, the Company shall provide the APFA National President with
copies of all reports prepared by Flight Attendants regarding any Aircraft Accidents, Hijacking
Incidents, Terrorist Incidents, or Serious Incidents. These reports may not be distributed by
the APFA National President to anyone other than the SSD without the Company’s prior
approval.
7. Following any Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, or Terrorist Incident, or Serious Incident,
Flight Attendants will be provided with immediate medical attention, if necessary. The APFA
will be advised of the location of the Flight Attendant(s). To the extent possible, the Flight
Attendant(s) shall be isolated from passengers and the media. The Flight Attendant crew will
not be separated prior to de-briefing unless required by medical personnel, for purposes of
drug/alcohol testing, or at the request of an involved Flight Attendant.
8. The Company shall promptly notify the designated emergency contact of each Flight
Attendant involved in an Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, or Terrorist Incident, or Serious
Incident in which the Flight Attendant suffers injury, if the Flight Attendant is incapacitated or
requests the Company to do so. Family members of such Flight Attendants will be covered by
the Company’s post-accident family assistance program.
9. If hotel rooms are necessary for Flight Attendants involved in an Aircraft Accident, Hijacking
Incident, accident, hijacking or Terrorist Incident, or Serious Incident, the Company shall
provide single rooms, adjacently located if possible.
10. Following any Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, accident, hijacking or Terrorist Incident, or
Serious Incident, when Flight Attendants involved are ready to return, the Company will
provide the Flight Attendants with transportation from the point of the event to of their place of
residence or, upon Company approval, an alternative location.
11. Following any Aircraft Accident, Hijacking Incident, or Terrorist Incident, or Serious Incident,
the Company shall release the involved Flight Attendant(s) from further duty if the Flight
Attendant informs the Company they are unable to continue to perform their duties for the
remainder of their trip, or for two (2) duty periods, if trips are back to back, whichever is greater,
with full pay and credit. The Company may extend the number of days off in catastrophic or
extreme situations. If additional unpaid time off is granted, the Flight Attendant will not be
responsible for making up any time lost pursuant to this Paragraph.
A Flight Attendant who is not able to return to the back to back trip(s) after the time period
stated above may claim sick time for the balance of the trip(s). Subsequent sick leave usage
will be pursuant to Sick Leave, Section 9. A Flight Attendant who elects to be relieved in
accordance with the above will not have that sick call recorded in their sick time totals for
disciplinary purposes.
I. Subject to NTSB limitations, if applicable, in the case of the death of a Flight Attendant while on
sequence away from base, the Company shall arrange for the timely return, at no cost, of the
remains to the location requested by the Flight Attendant’s designated emergency contact.

-- 264 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
34-4
J. The Company shall provide the SSD Chairperson with reports regarding Flight Attendant on-the-
job injuries on a monthly basis. The reports shall include the name of the Flight Attendant, employee
number, date, aircraft type, tail number and nature of the injury.
K. The Company will provide relevant information to the SSD Chairperson related to complaints filed
by Flight Attendants on specific flights regarding air contamination and noise level information that
occurs in the aircraft environment.
L. Unless prohibited by a governmental agency, the Company shall promptly notify the APFA National
President upon receipt of information regarding hostilities, terror threats, political disruptions, or
natural disasters that may present a danger to the safety of Flight Attendants at stations into which
they are required to fly. At the request of the APFA National President, the Company shall meet
and review the impact that such hostilities, terror threats, political or disruptions, and/or natural
disasters may have on Flight Attendants.
M. The Company shall notify a Flight Attendant, and the APFA National President, and the SSD
Chairperson, upon receipt of information of any potential environmental hazards to which the Flight
Attendant may be or have been exposed to while on duty.
N. No Flight Attendant shall be required to perform a bomb search on an aircraft or to remain on board
during such a search, unless a search must be performed while the aircraft is in flight and the Flight
Attendant has received FAA approved bomb search training.
O. The Company shall make earplugs available at no cost to Flight Attendants, which are the same
quality as provided for mechanics and fleet service. Flight Attendants shall not wear earplugs in the
presence of passengers. The Company shall post information regarding hearing conservation.
P. The Company will work with the SSD Chairperson regarding concerns over aircraft cabin
temperatures.
Q. The Company shall provide the APFA with flammability results for any new uniform items if
available from the manufacturer. The Company shall meet with the Union Uniform Committee
regarding uniform flammability concerns.
R. A Flight Attendant will not be required to lift, or assist in the lifting of weight which, in the Flight
Attendant’s best judgment, could result in an injury on duty.
S. Flight Attendants who reasonably believe they may have been exposed to hepatitis while in the
service of the Company will receive reimbursement for the screening and vaccination. This shall
be done immediately at the Company Clinic, if there is one in base. If the Company Clinic does not
have the treatment available, or there is not a Company Clinic in base, the Flight Attendant will be
sent to another treatment facility. Inoculations, vaccinations and x-rays required by public law as a
condition of employment or continued employment shall be paid for by the Company.
T. The Company and the APFA EAP recognize the Critical Incident Stress De-Brief Program (CISD)
is a collaborative policy which is jointly managed and monitored. The parties agree to meet upon
either party’s request for the purposes of determining policy updates and/or revisions as well as
resolving any current concerns regarding the policy. Under no circumstances will the policy be
changed without the mutual consent of both the APFA EAP and Inflight.
U. The Company will provide each Flight Attendant with an individual Personal Resuscitation Mask.
It is agreed that this mask will become part of a Flight Attendant’s required equipment. If a Flight
Attendant uses the mask as part of an emergency while on duty, a replacement mask will be
supplied to the Flight Attendant at no cost. If the mask is stolen or damaged, then a replacement

-- 265 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
34-5
mask will be supplied to the Flight Attendant in accordance with Uniforms, Section 7. If the mask is
lost by the Flight Attendant, then the Flight Attendant will be responsible for the cost of replacing
the mask. Personal Resuscitation Masks will continue to be provisioned on the aircraft as part of
the emergency equipment.

-- 266 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
35-1
SECTION 35 - UNION SECURITY
A. UNION MEMBERSHIP
1. Flight Attendants covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment, maintain
membership in APFA so long as this Agreement remains in effect, to the extent of paying an
initiation fee and membership dues (not including fines and penalties).
2. A Flight Attendant may have their initiation fee and membership dues deducted from their
earnings by signing the form "Assignment and Authorization for Check-off of Initiation Fees
and Union Dues", as hereinafter set forth, or if no such authorization for payroll deduction is
in effect, the Flight Attendant must pay their initiation fee and membership dues directly to the
APFA.
B. JOINING THE UNION
Flight Attendants, within sixty (60) days after the date of first assignment to line duty as a Flight
Attendant with the Company, shall become members of the APFA and shall, as a condition of
employment, maintain membership in the APFA so long as this Agreement remains in effect to the
extent of paying initiation fees and membership dues.
C. RECALLED AND REHIRED FLIGHT ATTENDANTS
1. Flight Attendants who have been laid off and are subsequently recalled shall be governed by
the provisions of Paragraph B to the extent of maintaining membership in the APFA and
paying membership dues.
2. Flight Attendants who have resigned from the Company and are subsequently rehired shall
be considered new employees for the purposes of this Section and shall be governed by the
provisions of Paragraph B to the extent of paying initiation fees and membership dues.
D. UNION DUES DURING LEAVES/TRANSFER
Flight Attendants who are or who become members of the APFA under Paragraphs A or B, shall
pay membership dues as set forth herein, except that payment of membership dues shall not be
required as a condition of employment during leaves of absence without pay or during periods of
transfer to classifications not covered by this Agreement. This shall not apply to transfers or leaves
of absence of less than thirty (30) days' duration.
E. DEFINITION OF "MEMBER OF THE APFA"
"Member of the APFA", as used herein, shall mean any Flight Attendant who is a member of the
APFA and is not more than sixty (60) days in arrears in the payment of initiation fees and
membership dues as specified herein.
F. DELINQUENT DUES PROCEDURES
When a Flight Attendant who is a member of the APFA becomes delinquent within the meaning of
Paragraph E, the following procedures shall apply:
1. The National Secretary/Treasurer of the APFA shall notify the Flight Attendant, in writing,
certified mail, return receipt requested, copy to the Vice President of Labor Relations of the
Company, that the Flight Attendant is delinquent in the payment of initiation fee and
membership dues, as specified herein and, accordingly, is subject to discharge as an

-- 267 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
35-2
employee of the Company. Such letter shall also notify the Flight Attendant that they must
remit the required payment within thirty (30) days of the date of the mailing of the notice, or
be subject to discharge.
2. If, upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the Flight Attendant still remains delinquent,
the APFA National President shall certify, in writing, to the Vice President of Labor Relations,
copy to the Flight Attendant, that the Flight Attendant has failed to remit payment within the
grace period allowed and is, therefore, to be discharged. The Vice President of Labor
Relations shall then take proper steps to discharge such employee from the service of the
Company.
3. A Flight Attendant discharged by the Company under the provisions of Paragraph F shall be
deemed to have been discharged for cause within the meaning of the terms and provisions of
this Agreement.
G. DISCHARGE FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES
Any discharge under the terms of Section 35 shall be based solely upon the failure of the Flight
Attendant to pay or tender payment of initiation fee and/or membership dues, as specified herein,
and not because of denial or termination of membership in APFA upon any other ground.
H. PROCEDURES FOR CONTESTING DISCHARGE
Any grievance by a Flight Attendant concerning the interpretation or application of the provisions
of this Section shall be subject, exclusively, to the following procedures:
1. A Flight Attendant who believes that the provisions of Section 35 pertaining to them has not
been properly interpreted or applied may submit their request for review, in writing, within
seven (7) days from the date the grievance arises, except that a grievance arising under
Paragraph F.1 must be filed within the thirty (30) day period specified therein. The request
will be submitted to the Flight Attendant’s immediate supervisor who will review the grievance
and render a decision, in writing, not later than ten (10) days following the receipt of the
grievance.
2. The immediate supervisor will forward their decision to the employee with a copy to the APFA
National President. If the decision is not satisfactory to both the Flight Attendant and the
APFA, then either may appeal the grievance directly to the System Board of Adjustment,
established under Section 31, within ten (10) days from the date of the decision. The terms
and provisions of such Section shall be applicable, except as otherwise specified herein.
3. Appeal
a. If the APFA should appeal the decision to the System Board of Adjustment, it shall prepare
a joint submission of the grievance, setting forth APFA's and the Flight Attendant's
positions, and forward copies to the Flight Attendant, the Vice President of Labor
Relations, and to the members of the System Board of Adjustment.
b. If the Flight Attendant should appeal the decision, they may request the Vice President of
Labor Relations to prepare the submission papers in the Flight Attendant’s behalf for the
System Board of Adjustment. In this event, such request shall be made by the Flight
Attendant, in writing, to their immediate supervisor who will transmit, through the
appropriate Manager of Inflight, all facts, data, and information concerning the grievance,
together with a copy of the decision from which appeal is taken. The Vice President of
Labor Relations will forward copies of the Flight Attendant's separate submission to the

-- 268 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
35-3
employee, the appropriate Manager of Inflight, the APFA National President, and to
members of the System Board of Adjustment.
4. During the period a grievance is filed under the provisions of Paragraph H and until final award
by the System Board of Adjustment, the Flight Attendant shall not be discharged from the
Company because of non-compliance with the terms and provisions of Section 35.
I. STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
APFA agrees that it shall indemnify the Company and save the Company harmless from any and
all claims which may be made by the Flight Attendant or Flight Attendants against the Company by
virtue of the wrongful application or misapplication of any of the terms of Section 35.
J. STATEMENT OF GOOD FAITH BY THE COMPANY
The Company will not interfere with, restrain, or coerce Flight Attendants because of membership
or lawful activity in the APFA, nor will it by discrimination in respect to hire, tenure of employment
or any term or condition of employment, attempt to discourage membership in the APFA.
K. STATEMENT OF GOOD FAITH BY APFA
The APFA agrees that neither APFA nor its members will intimidate or coerce any Flight Attendant
in respect to their right to work, or in respect to the APFA activity or membership and, further, there
shall be no solicitation of Flight Attendants for the APFA membership on Company time. The APFA
further agrees that the Company may take disciplinary action for any violation of Paragraph K.
L. COMPANY AGREEMENT TO DUES CHECK-OFF
During the life of this Agreement, the Company agrees to deduct from the pay of each member of
the APFA and remit to the APFA initiation fees and membership dues levied in accordance with
the Constitution of the APFA and as prescribed by the Railway Labor Act, as amended, provided
such member of the APFA voluntarily executes the following agreed upon form. This form, also to
be known as the "Check-off Form" shall be prepared and furnished by the APFA:

-- 269 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
35-4
"ASSIGNMENT AND AUTHORIZATION AND DIRECTION FOR CHECK-OFF OF UNION DUES"
"TO: American Airlines, Inc.
Attention: Payroll Customer Service"
"I, ____________________________________________________, hereby assign to
(Print Name, Initial, and Last Name)
the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA), my initiation fee and APFA dues from
any wages earned or to be earned by me as your employee. I authorize and direct you to deduct
APFA current initiation fees, in two (2) parts; one-half (1/2) with the first semi-monthly deduction,
and one-half (1/2) with the first semi-monthly deduction at the time of my anniversary, and the
amount currently in effect and as may hereafter be established by APFA as my membership dues,
from each semi-monthly paycheck and to remit the same to APFA."
"This assignment, authorization, and direction may be revoked by me, in writing, after the expiration
of one (1) year from the date hereto, or upon the termination date of the labor agreement in effect
at the time this is signed, whichever occurs sooner. The revocation must be sent by certified mail
to the APFA Treasurer and to American Airlines Payroll Customer Service.”
"This assignment, authorization and direction is made subject to the provisions of the Railway Labor
Act, as amended, and in accordance with the existing Agreement between APFA and the
Company."
Signature of Employee_____________________________Employee No. ____________
Address of Employee_________________________________________ Base ________
Department ______________ Phone ______________Date _______________________"
M. DUES CHECK-OFF FORM
1. When a member of the APFA properly executes such "Check-off Form", the APFA National
President shall forward an original copy to American Airlines – Payroll Customer Service.
2. Any Check-off Form which is incomplete or improperly executed will be returned to the
President.
3. Any notice of revocation, as provided for in Section 35 or in the Railway Labor Act, as
amended, must be in writing, signed by the Flight Attendant and delivered by certified mail,
addressed to the Manager, Payroll Customer Service, at the address indicated above, with a
copy to the APFA National President.
4. Check-off Forms and notices received by the Manager, Payroll Customer Service, will be
stamp-dated on the date received and will constitute notice to the Company on the date
received, and not when mailed.
N. COMPANY PROCEDURES FOR DUES CHECK-OFF
1. When a Check-off Form, as specified herein, is received by the Manager, Flight Payroll, on or
before a given payday, deductions will commence with the first regular paycheck following
said payday and will continue thereafter until revoked or cancelled, as provided in this Section.
2. The Company will remit to the APFA via electronic funds transfer, payment of all dues
collected on a given payday, or as soon after the payday as possible. These remittances will
be subject to normal accounting practice with respect to adjustments necessary because of
the methods involved in the deduction procedure.

-- 270 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
35-5
3. The Company remittance of APFA membership dues to the APFA will be accompanied by a
list of names, employee numbers and station numbers of the employees for whom deductions
have been made in that particular period, arranged in order of their employee numbers.
4. The Company will also supply in duplicate to the office of the APFA a listing of those
employees who are on leaves of absence, have accepted a position outside the bargaining
unit, or have terminated employment with the Company.
O. DUES POLICIES FOR THE INACTIVE FLIGHT ATTENDANT
1. No deductions of APFA dues will be made from the wages of any Flight Attendant who has
executed a Check-off Form and who has been transferred to a job not covered by this
Agreement, or who is on leave without pay. Upon return to work as a Flight Attendant,
deductions shall be automatically resumed, provided it is in accordance with the other
appropriate provisions of Section 35 and of the Railway Labor Act, as amended.
2. A Flight Attendant who has executed a Check-off Form and who resigns or is otherwise
terminated from the employ of the Company, shall be deemed to have automatically revoked
their assignment and if the Flight Attendant is recalled or reemployed, further deductions of
APFA dues will be made only upon execution and receipt of a new Check-off Form.
P. COLLECTION OF BACK DUES
Collection of any back dues owed at the time of starting deductions for any employee, collection of
dues missed because the employee's earnings were not sufficient to cover the payment of dues
for a particular pay period, and collection of dues missed because of accidental errors in the
accounting procedure, will be the responsibility of the APFA and will not be the subject of payroll
deductions, and the Company shall not be responsible in any way because of such missed
collections. It will be the APFA’s responsibility to verify apparent errors with the individual Flight
Attendant before contacting the Company.
Q. DUES DEDUCTION
1. Deductions of membership dues shall be made in accordance with the Constitution of the
APFA and as prescribed by the Railway Labor Act, as amended, from each paycheck provided
there is a balance in the paycheck sufficient to cover the amount after all other deductions
authorized by the employee or required by law have been satisfied.
2. In the event of termination of employment, the obligation of the Company to collect dues shall
not extend beyond the semi-monthly period in which the Flight Attendant’s last day of work
occurs.
R. RIGHT TO UNION REPRESENTATION
The APFA does not question the right of the Company supervisors to manage and supervise the
work force and make reasonable inquiries of employees, individually or collectively, in the normal
course of work.
1. Investigative Meetings
In meetings for the purpose of investigation of any matter which may eventuate in the
application of discipline or dismissal, or when written statements are taken relating to such
matters, or in meetings of sufficient importance for the Company to have witnesses, or more
than one (1) Company supervisor present, the Flight Attendant, if they request, shall have an
APFA representative present. Such meetings will be delayed for a reasonable period of time,

-- 271 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
35-6
not to exceed four (4) hours, to allow the APFA representative to be present, provided the
Flight Attendant remains at the place of the meeting while awaiting the APFA representative.
The presence of an APFA representative at such meetings shall in no way interfere with the
conduct of the meeting.
2. Document Exchange
In meetings held for the purpose of investigation of any matter which may eventuate in
discipline or dismissal, or when written statements are taken relating to such matters, or in
meetings of sufficient importance for the Company to have witnesses, or more than one (1)
Company supervisor present, the Company will provide the Flight Attendant with copies of all
documents related to that meeting. The Flight Attendant will be permitted to review the
documents before the meeting begins. If the Flight Attendant requests APFA representation,
they will be permitted to confer privately with such representative before the meeting begins.
Such conference will not normally exceed fifteen (15) minutes, but in no case will such
conference unreasonably delay the meeting. Once the meeting begins, such meeting will
continue uninterrupted.
For confidentiality purposes, all names and other identifying information may be expunged
from any documents provided by the Company, at the Company’s option. In any investigation
involving alleged harassment, such as sexual, racial, religious, etc., the contents of the
documents will be typed in their entirety and provided to the Flight Attendant, except that
names and all other identifying information will be expunged for confidentiality purposes.
3. Second APFA Representative as Scribe at Investigative Meetings in Paragraph R.1
a. A second APFA representative at an Investigative meeting will be permitted for the sole
purpose of taking notes.
b. The presence of an APFA representative, either as a Flight Attendants’ designated
representative or as a silent scribe, will in no way interfere with the conduct of the meeting
nor may the APFA’s decision to add a second APFA representative as a scribe delay the
meeting.
c. Should problems develop for the Company as a result of it permitting a scribe at an
Investigative meeting, the Company will notify the APFA of such problems and the parties
will attempt to solve them. The Company retains the option to discontinue the practice in
the event that problems persist which cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of the parties.
4. Presence of APFA Observer during Company Security Department Investigative Interviews.
The Company will permit an APFA representative to be present as a silent observer during
Company Security Department investigative interviews in accordance with the following terms:
a. Flight Attendant(s) interviewed by a Company Security Department representative as part
of a Company Security Department investigation may, upon request by the Flight
Attendant(s), have an APFA representative present during such interview to act in the role
of a silent observer.
b. Should it be impossible for an APFA representative to be available or if an APFA
representative cannot be readily available upon request, (within one (1) hour) the
Company’s Security Department will not be required to delay the interview. In such
circumstances, a Flight Attendant who is being interviewed by the Company Security
Department may (1) request the presence of another Flight Attendant who is covered by

-- 272 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
35-7
the AA/APFA Agreement, who is available within one (1) hour, and who is not also being
interviewed, to act in the role of a silent observer; or (2) request a brief consultation with
an APFA representative by phone prior to the interview. A Flight Attendant who elects to
consult with an APFA representative by phone will be provided, generally five (5) to ten
(10) minutes, to speak privately with an APFA representative prior to the interview.
Although such Flight Attendant’s luggage and other personal possessions will remain with
the Flight Attendant, their luggage and other personal possessions must remain in plain
view of the Security Department representative during the private phone consultation to
ensure the integrity of all evidence is preserved.
c. Should a silent observer be present during the Company Security Department’s
investigation interview, such silent observer, whether an APFA representative or another
Flight Attendant, may not interfere with or impede the investigation and/or interview. If a
silent observer fails to comply with the terms of Paragraph R, the Company will exclude
the silent observer from the area in which the investigation and/or interview is being held
and the Company will continue with the process.
d. In the event the Company concludes that problems have developed for the Company as
a result of its permitting an observer to be present during Security interviews, the
Company will notify the APFA of such problems and the parties will attempt to resolve
them. The Company retains the right to modify or cancel Paragraph R.4.a-d in the event
problems persist that cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of the Company.
S. COMPANY TO ASSUME ADMINISTRATIVE OVERRIDE
The Company will assume all related payroll cost for Flight Attendants who are on pay
continuance.
T. SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any provision of this Agreement is declared unlawful or unenforceable as a result of
administrative, legislative or judicial action, the parties agree that the Agreement will be amended
to conform with the requirements of such action, provided however, either party shall have the right
to challenge the action in question, and amendment of this Agreement will be deferred pending
completion of such challenge with no further right of appeal. All other provisions of this Agreement
shall remain in full force and effect.

-- 273 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
36-1
SECTION 36 - VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS: APFA PAC
A. APFA PAC CONTRIBUTIONS
1. The Company shall provide a means for payroll deductions for any Flight Attendant who
completes an APFA PAC Wage Deduction Authorization Card, as provided in Paragraph A.4.
2. The APFA shall bear the administrative costs, if any, incurred by the Company in processing
and forwarding contributions to APFA PAC to the Union.
3. APFA PAC contributions shall be deducted from each current month’s regular paycheck that
is scheduled to pay the prior contractual month’s activity and shall be remitted to APFA as
soon as practical thereafter, but in no event later than thirty (30) calendar days after the date
of the deduction.
4. APFA PAC Wage Deduction Authorization Card.
a. The Company shall deduct a monthly contribution to APFA PAC from each regular
paycheck the pay of each Flight Attendant who voluntarily authorizes such contributions
on a form provided for that purpose by the APFA. The APFA Office will be responsible for
the recordkeeping and maintenance of the contribution forms.
b. All payroll deduction authorizations will be submitted through the APFA Office, which will
provide forward the original signed copy to the Payroll Department of, American Airlines,
by the first business day of each month. In addition to providing the paper authorization
card to the Payroll Department, the Union will provide at the same time an electronic file
reflecting the information from the cards being forwarded which will include employee
name, employee number, and deduction amount. The Company will provide a file format
to the APFA to use for the electronic submission. The APFA Office will also send copies
of the contribution forms to the Payroll Department of American Airlines, however the
APFA will maintain the original form’s image and ensure the electronic document is
reflective of the elections on the forms.
c. Any revocation of such deduction authorization must be in writing and signed by the Flight
Attendant. All payroll deduction revocations will be submitted through the APFA Office,
which will provide forward the original signed revocation notice to the Payroll Department
of American Airlines, by the first business day of each month. In addition to providing the
paper authorization card to the Payroll Department, the Union will provide at the same
time an electronic file reflecting the information from the cards being forwarded which will
include employee name, employee number, and date submitted. The Company will
provide a file format to the APFA to use for the electronic submission.
d. All deductions will be made in accordance with applicable laws.

-- 274 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-1
SECTION 37 - GENERAL
A. NO DISCRIMINATION
In accordance with the established policy of the Company and the APFA, the provisions of this
Agreement will apply equally to all employees hereunder, regardless of color, race, religion, creed,
sex, age, national origin, disability, or sexual orientation.
B. BULLETINS
Bulletins pertaining to filling of vacancies, notices of the availability of voluntary leaves of absence,
and any other pertinent information for exercising seniority will be posted electronically for the Flight
Attendant on leaves of absence or vacation. If a Flight Attendant on a leave of absence or vacation
is not allowed access to the Company’s electronic postings, such information will be mailed to such
Flight Attendant, unless they will return to work within the period of the posted bulletin. Notices
relating to voluntary retirements will be mailed to Flight Attendants on leaves of absence.
C. NEW EQUIPMENT AND NEW INTERNATIONAL ROUTES
1. Should the Company place new equipment into service during the term of this agreement,
negotiations for rates of pay, rules and working conditions applicable only to the new
equipment may be initiated by the APFA or the Company irrespective of Duration, Section 40.
Such conferences shall begin within thirty (30) days after requests have been made for such
conferences unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the APFA and the Company.
2. If the parties fail to reach a mutual agreement regarding such pay, rules, and working
conditions, any unresolved issue(s) will be submitted to a neutral referee for resolution. Such
referee shall be selected from a panel of seven (7) referees provided by the National Mediation
Board. The referee shall, in consultation with the parties, set a date, time, and place to hear
the dispute. Hearings shall be conducted expeditiously and a decision rendered within sixty
(60) days from the date a panel is requested, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
3. Should any improvements be agreed upon or resolved by the neutral referee, such
improvements shall be made retroactive to the date any Flight Attendant began such new
service or new aircraft.
D. NEW EQUIPMENT DESIGN
1. “New Equipment” as provided in Paragraph D, means any equipment placed into service by
the Company of an aircraft type or series, which is not in service on the date of signing. For
the purposes of this Paragraph, the following equipment types shall not be considered “New
Equipment:”
A330
B767
A319, A320, and A321
B737
B777
B787
B757
E190
Boeing MD 80

-- 275 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-2
The Company will notify the APFA National President or their designee prior to a final
resolution of the equipment specifications when firm aircraft delivery commitments are put in
place that would introduce New Equipment into service. Upon request, the APFA will receive
copies of interior design plans for such New Equipment, including revisions of such plans. In
accordance with Safety and Security Department, Section 34.E, the APFA’s input to such plans
will be considered during the design process.
E. A Flight Attendant shall not be responsible for assisting in loading or unloading of aircraft.
F. CABIN CLEANING DUTIES
1. Flight Attendants may be required to complete cabin cleaning duties, as defined in Paragraph
F, at every station following flight segments, with the exception of the following:
a. IPD flight segments; NIPD flight segments;
b. Flight segments immediately preceding the scheduled layover of the aircraft;
c. Flight segment scheduled to arrive between 0059 to 0501 local time;
d. Flight segments scheduled for 1000 statute miles or greater;
e. Any charter, CRAF or MAC segments.
2. Such cabin cleaning duties shall be defined as, and limited to, the following: collecting papers
and refuse in the cabin of the aircraft; crossing seatbelts; stowing pillows and blankets in the
overhead compartments and/or seats; and collecting and stowing magazines as applicable.
A Flight Attendant shall be responsible for the tidying of seat pockets and collecting only to
the extent of removing items which are visible and accessible without reaching into the pocket.
A Flight Attendant will not be required to perform such cabin cleaning duties after the
conclusion of their duty day, including the de-brief period. Any unfinished cleaning duties shall
be the responsibility of the Company and the oncoming crew shall not be responsible for such
cleaning.
3. No Flight Attendant will be required to engage in any individual cabin cleaning duty where
doing so violates the scope provision then governing any other non-Flight Attendant who both
is employed by the Company and represented by any other union. Flight Attendants, however,
will be required to perform all the cabin cleaning duties defined above even in instances where
the Company has contracted vendor cleaners on duty.
4. Ground crew personnel will be responsible for loading catering supplies onto the aircraft and
for stowing such supplies.
5. Ground crew personnel will be responsible for stocking and replenishing the lavatory while the
aircraft is on the ground.
6. Flight Attendants will be provided with sanitary wet naps and plastic gloves of the same quality
as provided to Company cleaners for use on the aircraft.
7. Until Flight Attendant operational integration, Legacy American Airlines Flight Attendants and
Legacy US Airway Flight Attendants will continue cabin cleaning duties as provided for in each
group’s previous Agreement.

-- 276 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-3
G. CABIN JUMPSEATS
1. Cabin jumpseats shall be for the exclusive use of employees on the System Seniority List,
Flight Attendants employed by American Airlines wholly owned carriers, Flight Attendant
trainees, and Inflight Management as provided in this Paragraph. The boarding priority for
unoccupied cabin jumpseats shall be as follows:
a. Mainline American Deadheading Flight Attendant who has been requested and voluntarily
agrees to occupy the jumpseat;
b. Mainline American Flight Attendant traveling on Company business;
c. Mainline American Flight Attendant traveling for personal reasons, in order of boarding
priority code and the time of check-in for the flight;
Note: The Union shall supply the Company with an order of jumpseat assignment no later
than July 1, 2015. The Union shall determine method of the jumpseat by a vote of Flight
Attendants choosing between the legacy AA, legacy US, and a compromise system (to be
agreed upon by the Union and the Company).
d. An American Airlines wholly-owned carrier Flight Attendant;
e. Mainline American Flight Attendant new hire trainee;
f. Inflight Management holding Flight Attendant qualification.
2. A Flight Attendant may ride the unassigned and/or unoccupied jumpseat(s) installed on any
Company aircraft, including charters, provided the charter agreement between American and
the charter company does not prohibit non-working crew members on the flight and the charter
departs from a American or Envoy terminal, as follows:
a. A Flight Attendant must be attired in accordance with the standard dress code required
for First or Business Class non-revenue employee travel. However, a Flight Attendant, at
their option, may be in uniform. A Flight Attendant should display a Company ID above
the waist.
b. A Flight Attendant may be required to move to an inconspicuous jumpseat to avoid any
service disruption.
3. At close out of the flight, non-revenue passengers will be processed for unoccupied passenger
seats. After the completion of this process, all unoccupied cabin jumpseat(s) will be awarded
by the boarding priority as specified in Paragraph G.1. Once awarded at close out, all cabin
jumpseat awards are final and will not be rescinded or reissued even if the flight is
subsequently delayed.
4. A Flight Attendant will not be required to list for the flight prior to arrival in the gate area in
order to obtain a jumpseat. However, a Flight Attendant wanting to be considered as a non-
revenue passenger must be listed for consideration of a passenger seat. Jumpseat forms will
be available at all gates unless the Company implements a jumpseat process which does not
require the use of paper forms.
5. A Flight Attendant possessing their Company ID will be permitted to obtain the cabin jumpseat.
6. A Flight Attendant who is authorized to occupy a jumpseat is expected to introduce themself
to other Flight Attendants.

-- 277 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-4
7. A Flight Attendant will be awarded the jumpseat up until close of the flight.
8. If the Company agrees that Pilots may not be removed/denied boarding for weight restrictions
then such provision shall apply to Flight Attendants as well. Any policy for removal/denial for
weight restriction reasons shall be non-discriminatory as it relates to pilots and Flight
Attendants.
9. A Flight Attendant that is removed or denied from occupying a jumpseat due to a weight
restriction or an inoperative jumpseat, who consequently misses their sequence, shall have
such sequence qualify under the Commuter Policy pursuant to General, Section 37.
10. A Flight Attendant deadheading in accordance with Deadhead, Section 16 shall not be
required but may be requested to occupy the unawarded and unoccupied Flight Attendant
jumpseat(s) in accordance with Paragraph G.1.a.
11. After the door of the aircraft has closed and before the aircraft moves, a cabin jumpseat rider
awarded a jumpseat may occupy any otherwise unoccupied passenger seat in coach or
economy class, excluding crew rest seats. A Flight Attendant may occupy an unoccupied
passenger seat in other classes of service, i.e., first class or business class under the following
conditions:
a. On Domestic or International flights with two classes of services, i.e., first class or
business class and coach or economy, one (1) otherwise unoccupied first class or
business class seat, as applicable, may be occupied by such Flight Attendant provided
they are in uniform or are attired in accordance with the standard dress code for non-
revenue employee travel required for such class of service.
b. On Domestic or International flights with three classes of service, i.e., first class, business
class and coach or economy, one (1) otherwise unoccupied business class seat may be
occupied by such Flight Attendant provided they are in uniform or is attired in accordance
with the standard dress code for non-revenue employee travel required for such class of
service.
c. Flight Attendant upgrades to First or Business class will be pursuant to Company policy,
but in no case less favorable than the policy afforded to Pilots.
12. A Flight Attendant occupying the cabin jumpseat may not consume an alcoholic beverage.
13. A Flight Attendant occupying the cabin jumpseat must comply with all rules pertaining to a
passenger, e.g., signs and placards, no flight deck admittance, etc.
H. RECIPROCAL CABIN SEAT AGREEMENTS
The Company may participate in reciprocal cabin crewmember travel agreements with carriers that
are willing to enter into such agreements. The Company will meet with the APFA National President
or designee(s), upon request, to review progress and take suggestions regarding the establishment
of such agreements. These agreements will be accordance with Company travel procedures.
I. COMMUTER POLICY
The rules concerning Flight Attendants who live in a city other than their crew base and commute
to their assigned crew base on American Airlines or its wholly owned carriers will be as follows:

-- 278 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-5
1. The rules set forth in this Agreement apply only to Flight Attendants who designate themselves
as commuters with Inflight via the Company Intranet and list an airport served by American
Airlines or its wholly owned carriers, or in the case of an offline carrier.
2. The commuting Flight Attendant must make all reasonable efforts to arrive in crew base at
least one (1) hour prior to scheduled check-in or the start of the Reserve availability period.
3. A Flight Attendant will qualify under the Commuter Policy if the Flight Attendant’s;
a. first scheduled commuting flight cancels or is delayed as a result of weather, mechanical,
Company convenience; or the equipment is downgraded within twenty-four (24) hours
prior to the scheduled departure; or has sufficient seats available (a load factor of less
than ninety (90) percent at check-in time (within twenty-four (24) hours prior to departure),
and the Flight Attendant is present at the departure gate for standby processing for the
flight and the Flight Attendant is not cleared from the standby list because the flight is full;
and
b. subsequent scheduled flight for which the Flight Attendant is listed for travel cancels as a
result of weather, mechanical, Company convenience; or the equipment downgrade
within twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled departure; or the flight is delayed for
at least thirty (30) minutes; or the flight is full. the Flight Attendant shall electronically
notify the Company as soon as possible prior to their scheduled check-in and the
Company will provide a confirmation receipt. have the option of assigning the commuter
to any one of the following:
4. A Flight Attendant who attempts to commute on the first and/or second flight will satisfy the
provisions of the commuter policy provided they meet the requirements above. The Flight
Attendant must submit evidence they listed for the flight and were present at the gate including
a snapshot of the monitor showing their position on the standby list or a boarding pass to
demonstrate that the flight was not full. A Flight Attendant must show a screenshot of seats
available for sale within twenty-four (24) hours of departure or documentation showing
sufficient availability for the flight.
5. The first (3) Unable To Commute incidents within a rolling active twelve (12)-month period, of
the nature described in Paragraph I.3, will not be treated as attendance infractions so long as
the Flight Attendant provides the required supporting documentation from the reservations
system to their supervisor within seven (7) days of the Unable To Commute incident(s).
Example One:
The first flight is canceled and the second flight is full. This does qualify under the Commuter
policy.
Example Two:
The first flight is full and the second flight is cancelled. This does not qualify under the
Commuter policy because the first flight being full is not sufficient.
Qualifies Under Commuter Policy (as detailed in Paragraphs 3 and 4 above)
Airline First Flight Second Flight
AA* or wholly owned
Or Other Airline (OAL)
Cancellation, Equipment
Downgrade or Delay,
Sufficient Seats Available
twenty (24) hours prior to
departure
Cancellation, 30+ minute
delay, or Full Flight

-- 279 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-6
*A Flight Attendant that is removed or denied from occupying a jumpseat due to a weight
restriction or an inoperative jumpseat, who consequently misses their sequence, shall have
such sequence qualify under the Commuter Policy.
6. Crew Scheduling will have the option of assigning the commuter to any one of the following:
a. Split the Flight Attendant back on their original sequence;
b. Assign the Flight Attendant to any comparable sequence, i.e., same duty days;
c. Release the Flight Attendant from their duty and drop their original sequence. The Flight
Attendant will be responsible to make up the time lost, if possible.
7. A Reserve who is assigned a future trip and released from Reserve duty pursuant to Reserve
Duty, Section 12.J.11, and who is unable to arrive in crew base prior to check-in time shall be
eligible for the protections of the Commuter policy provided the Flight Attendant complies with
the provisions of Paragraph I.
J. CAMERAS IN CABIN
Should video monitoring devices be required in the cabin during flight, the Company will meet with
the APFA in advance to negotiate the formulation of policies regarding the use of such devices.
These negotiations will not be held pursuant to Section 6 of the Railway Labor Act.
K. MECHANICAL FERRY FLIGHTS
Should a mechanical ferry flight be approved by the Maintenance Control Duty Manager and the
Captain for the Flight Attendants to fly, the Flight Attendants will receive pay and credit as if the
flight was a revenue flight. An individual Flight Attendant may elect not to take a mechanical ferry
flight and, if so, it will be considered an operational mechanical ferry split and the pay will stop
where the Flight Attendant gets off the trip. The Flight Attendant is entitled to positive space travel
and meal expense back to base, and hotel accommodations, if applicable. If a Flight Attendant is
not authorized to go on the ferry flight, the portion not authorized will be paid. In addition, a crew
substitution claim may be applicable.
L. CHANGES IN FLIGHT SERVICE
The Company shall meet and confer with the APFA National President or their designee prior to
the final resolution regarding changes to Inflight procedures which would affect the Flight
Attendants, initiation of a new class of service or implementing a seat configuration change. The
Company will consider the APFA’s recommendations prior to making the changes.
M. FIRST LATE REPORT
The first late report within a rolling active twelve (12) month period will not count for disciplinary
purposes.
N. APFA LOCK-BOX (MOVED TO 32.H)
The Company will provide at base stations, a suitable lock-box for APFA mail. The size and type
shall be dependent upon the location at each base station.
O.N. ACCESS TO POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

-- 280 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-7
A copy of American Airlines Policies and Procedures will be located on Company intranet. Any
changes specific to Flight Attendants will be communicated via the Flight Service website.
P. MEDICAL CLEARANCE (MOVED TO 25.N)
The Company will post and keep current at each Flight Attendant base a bulletin specifying the
method and availability of medical clearance.
Q.O. COMPANY PERSONNEL RECORDS
1. Maintenance of Documents Regarding Job Performance
Except as provided herein, documents regarding the job performance of a Flight Attendant
shall be maintained in a single department file located at the Flight Attendant’s base. FAA
and Company training data may be alternately maintained in separate files by the Inflight
Training Department.
2. Handling of Documents Containing Positive Comments
Inflight Management will place documents containing positive comments regarding a Flight
Attendant’s job performance in their department file and provide a copy to the Flight Attendant.
3. Handling of Documents Containing Derogatory Comments
a. No document containing derogatory comments (including passenger complaints) which
might serve, as a basis for disciplinary action will be placed in the Flight Attendant’s
department file unless a copy is provided to the Flight Attendant within ten (10) calendar
days from receipt by Inflight. Inflight will date-stamp documents containing derogatory
comments with the date they are received by Inflight.
b. In the event a document identifies a passenger, another Flight Attendant, or contains
derogatory comments about an employee other than the Flight Attendant, that information
will be redacted before the document is provided to the Flight Attendant. The Flight
Attendant shall not contact the complainant. If applicable, the class of service where the
incident occurred will be provided. If a grievance is filed which involves the redacted
document, the redacted information will be provided to the grievant and APFA during the
document exchange pursuant to System Board of Adjustment, Section 31.Q.
c. No documents regarding a passenger complaint shall be placed in the Flight Attendant’s
file unless:
i. The alleged misconduct or disservice was something over which the Flight Attendant
had control; and,
ii. The Flight Attendant is named or adequately described in the document.
d. The Flight Attendant may provide a written response to any document or notation
containing derogatory comments. These responses will be placed in the department file
by Inflight Management. If the Company determines that the Flight Attendant’s challenge
to the document is justified, the document or notation will be removed and destroyed. In
no event will an anonymous document be placed in the department file.

-- 281 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-8
4. Removal of Discipline or Derogatory Letters
a. Upon a Flight Attendant’s request, any derogatory letters that did not result in discipline
shall be removed from a Flight Attendant’s file after twelve (12) active months from the
date the derogatory letter was placed in their file.
b. Disciplinary letters will remain in a Flight Attendant’s file up to one (1) active year two (2)
years from the date of issuance. Any expired disciplinary letter will be removed upon
request. However, a disciplinary letter will not be removed if the Flight Attendant has been
issued a disciplinary letter for the same or similar conduct before the expiration of the
disciplinary letter. Once a document has been removed or the applicable time period
above has elapsed without a recurrence of the same or similar conduct, the document
may not serve as a basis for any employment action, including any disciplinary action,
taken with respect to the Flight Attendant.
5. Access to Department File
A Flight Attendant may make an appointment with Inflight Management to review the Flight
Attendant’s file, in management’s presence, during regular office hours. An APFA
representative may also make an appointment, with a Flight Attendant’s written authorization
or verbal authorization to the Company, to review that Flight Attendant’s department file,
including electronic records used to track job performance or attendance. Documents in the
Flight Attendant’s department file, including electronic records used to track job performance
or attendance, may be duplicated upon request.
R.P. IN-FLIGHT REST
When time permits during a flight, provided all scheduled in-flight services are completed,
passenger needs are met and all zones monitored, a Flight Attendant will be permitted to take in-
flight rest in accordance with the following provisions:
1. Guidelines for Use of Passenger Seat(s) During In-Flight Rest.
Although in-flight rest periods will vary depending on the schedule flying time, a Flight
Attendant will be permitted to take in-flight rest in a Flight Attendant or flight deck cockpit
jumpseat, or if available, a passenger seat, aisle side, in the last row of Coach class provided
that there are no passengers seated in the row.
a. The Company and the APFA agree to the following parameters on the use of a passenger
seat(s) for in-flight rest when in-flight rest is available and appropriate. While taking in-
flight rest in a passenger seat, a Flight Attendant should reflect a professional and
appropriate image to the passengers. This includes, for example:
i. Occupying only one seat;
ii. Remaining awake;
iii. Refraining from enclosing seat(s) with blankets or similar items; and,
iv. Using discretion while engaging in personal activities in order to remain accessible to
the passengers and available to perform Flight Attendant duties
b. Flight Attendant rest will be coordinated by the Purser or the Lead Flight Attendant to
ensure all cabins remain monitored.

-- 282 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
37-9
c. If a Passenger is either assigned or requests to move to a designated crew rest seat, prior
to takeoff, the passenger’s request will be accommodated. If after takeoff, on flights of
five (5) hours or more, a passenger who requests to move to a designated crew rest seat
will be accommodated at the discretion of the Purser or Lead Flight Attendant.
d. It is understood that agents may not be requested to provide crew rest seats when these
seats are otherwise available or needed for passengers.
2. Flights of Less Than Seven (7) Five (5) Hours Scheduled Flying Time
a. Crew Rest Time
The in-flight rest period shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes and one Flight Attendant at
a time will be permitted to take in-flight rest.
b. Facilities
A Flight Attendant will be permitted to take rest in a Flight Attendant or flight deck cockpit
jumpseat or passenger seat, if available.
c. Activities
Flight Attendants may eat, drink or read during the designated in-flight rest period.

-- 283 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-1
SECTION 38 - CREW REST
When time permits during a flight, provided all scheduled in-flight services are completed,
passenger needs are met and all zones monitored, a Flight Attendant will be permitted to take crew
in-flight rest in accordance with the following provisions.
A. GUIDELINES FOR USE OF PASSENGER SEAT(S) DURING CREW IN-FLIGHT REST
Although crew in-flight rest periods will vary depending on the scheduled schedule flying time, a
Flight Attendant will be permitted to take crew in-flight rest in designated areas as defined in
Paragraph B.a Flight Attendant or cockpit jumpseat, or, if available, a passenger seat, aisle side,
in the last row of Coach class provided that there are no passengers seated in the row.
1. The following parameters shall apply to the use of a passenger seat(s) for crew in-flight rest
when there in-flight rest is not an assigned passenger seat or Flight Attendant crew bunk.
(See Paragraph B available and appropriate. This includes, for exceptions): example:
a. Occupying only one seat;
b. Remaining awake;
c. Refraining from enclosing seat(s) with blankets or similar items;
d. Using discretion while engaging in personal activities in order to remain accessible to
the passengers and available to perform Flight Attendant duties;
e. Reflecting a professional and appropriate image to the passengers; and,
f. Eating, drinking or reading during the designated crew in-flight rest period. (See
Paragraph B for exceptions)
2. The Purser/Lead Flight Attendant will be responsible for the coordination and scheduling of
specific crew inflight rest periods for each working Flight Attendant. The Purser/Lead Flight
Attendant will schedule crew in-flight rest periods taking into consideration the services
scheduled.
3. On flights of less than seven (7) hours if a passenger is either assigned or requests to move
to a crew rest seat, prior to takeoff, the passenger’s request will be accommodated. After
takeoff, if a passenger requests to move to a crew rest seat, the passenger will be
accommodated at the discretion of the Purser/Lead Flight Attendant.
4. It is understood that agents may not be requested to provide crew rest seats when these
seats are otherwise available or needed for passengers.

-- 284 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-2
B. CREW REST GUIDELINES
Flight
Segment
(Block)
# of F/As
who can
take crew
rest at a
time
Break
Duration
Sleeping
Permitted
Permitted to
watch
video/listen
to music
Location of
Rest
Blocked or
Assigned
Seats
< 6:59 1 :15 No No Cabin
Jumpseat
Flightdeck
Cockpit
Jumpseat
Customer
seat (last
row of M/C,
aisle if avbl)
No
Domestic or
International
turn-around
flights
• w/ one or
more legs
departing
after 2100;
and
• with a
minimum
12 hour
duty day;
and
overnight
flight <7
hours
1 on
Narrowbody
Up to 2 on
widebody
Purser/Lead
discretion1
:30 Yes No, except in
pax seat or
crew bunk
Cabin
Jumpseat
Flightdeck
Cockpit
Jumpseat
Customer
seat (last
row M/C,
aisle if avbl)
Crew F/A
bunks or
crew rest
seat (if avbl)
No,
7:00 – 11:59 1 Up to 4
Purser/Lead
Discretion
45 minutes Yes Yes Designated
crew rest
seats or FA
bunks
Assigned
seats if no
bunks
12:00 – 14:29 Up to 4
Purser/Lead
Discretion
2 hours 2* Yes Yes Designated
crew rest
seats or FA
bunks
Assigned
seats if no
bunks
14:30 + Up to 4
Purser/Lead
discretion
3 hours
2&3**
Yes Yes Designated
crew rest
seats or FA
bunks
Assigned
seats if no
bunks
1 On an IPD/NIPD trip sequence, if either the inbound or the outbound IPD/NIPD segment of such
sequences is greater than seven (7) hours’ scheduled flying time, the above crew rest will apply on
both segments.

-- 285 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-3
2 *On a long-range trip sequence, if either the inbound or the outbound segment of such long-range
sequence is less than twelve (12) hours scheduled flying time, crew in-flight rest on the segment
that is less than twelve (12) hours may be reduced to one (1) hour and thirty (30) minutes.
3 **The Purser may extend the crew in-flight rest according to the available time and service
requirements of the flight.
C. CREW REST SEATS / CREW REST FACILITY
On long or extended long range flying as defined in International Flying, Section 14, the following
minimum standards must be met:
1. On 777 and 787 aircraft, four (4) crew bunks;
2. On other aircraft, four (4) curtained reclining/sleeper seats*
*Note: This provision does not apply to the A330 aircraft, which will continue to be governed by the
provisions of Paragraph I.
D. TYPE OF CREW REST FACILITY
Aircraft Type Facility Features
757 As specified in Paragraph E Privacy curtain
Last row of Main Cabin
767-200 Seats C, D, and E in the last row
of “B” or “C” Zone
Standard features as equipped in
current fleet as of date of signing
767-300 Crew Rest Seats – 17AB and
17HJ
Standard features as equipped in
current fleet as of date of signing
A330 Seats A,B, G, and H at the 3L/R
exit
As described in Paragraph I
777 FA Bunks As described in Paragraph E
787 FA Bunks As described in Paragraph F
A321XLR Row 33, seats A-B-C and Row
34, seats D-E-F
As described in Paragraph G
737/A319/A320/A321 Seats D-E-F in last row of Main
Cabin, unless the last row does
not meet standards outlined in
Paragraph H, then second to last
row of Main Cabin
As described in Paragraph H
E. INTERNATIONAL 757 CREW REST SEATS
1. On B-757 aircraft used in International Operations of seven (7) to seven hours fifty-nine
minutes (7:59), the crew rest will be provided row 36, seats D-E-F (LAA aircraft) and last row
A-B-C (LUS aircraft) and consistent with the following features:
a. For Flight Attendant rest only;
b. Placarded;
c. Reclining seats of the types provided to passengers in that class of service with
individual reading lights and air vents; and,

-- 286 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-4
d. Curtained.
2. On B-757 aircraft equipped with hydro-lock seats prior to the effective date of this
Agreement which are used in International Operations of eight (8) hours or more
(scheduled), except for International routes to and from Charlotte and Philadelphia, which
will be provided three (3) curtained off Main Cabin Extra (MCE) seats, the crew rest will be
provided at row 35, seats D-E-F and row 36, seats D-E-F and will have the following
features:
Note: If three (3) curtained off MCE seats are not provisioned on International routes to and
from Charlotte and Philadelphia, existing hydro-lock crew rest seats will be provided.
a. A hydro-lock that allows the seats to be reclined to seventy (70) degrees when used for
crew rest;
b. Adjustable headrest;
c. Combination leg rest and footrest; and,
d. Privacy curtain and curtaining mechanism.
Note: Crew rest seats on B-757 aircraft not so configured prior to the date of this Agreement will
be provided three (3) seats in the last row as specified in Paragraph E.1.
F. INTERNATIONAL 767 CREW REST SEATS
1. Parameters for Design, Location, and Amenities for the 767-200
a. Placarded;
b. Reclining seats of the types provided to passengers in that class of service with
individual reading lights and air vents;
c. Curtained; and,
d. Seats C-D-E in the last row of B zone or C zone.
2. Parameters for Design, Location and Amenities for 767-300ER
a. Crew rest seats for flights seven (7) hours or more scheduled flying time but not
exceeding twelve (12) hours scheduled flying time, the following parameters in the
design, location and amenities for Crew Rest Seats will be established.
b. There will a total of four (4) crew seats (two (2) crew rest doubles). The crew rest seats
will include the standard mechanisms of the current 767 Business Class seats,
including:
i. Seats 17A B and 17 H J.
ii. A minimum of sixty (60) degrees recline from vertical;
iii. A footrest which can be extended and adjusted to a minimum of sixty (60) degrees;
iv. Audio capability;

-- 287 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-5
v. Additional seat cushioning;
vi. Leather or cloth material, at the APFA’s option.
c. There will be a fixed “floor to overhead bin” partitions forward and aft of the crew rest
seats. There will also be a partial “wrap-around” privacy shell that will be used in
conjunction with a partial curtain along the side of the outboard crew rest seats to
provide additional privacy.
d. Each crew rest seat double will be located in an area that will have seventy-one (71)
inches of total space to accommodate the recline and footrest, and will have a non-
detachable, full-length, weighted privacy curtain with noise and light-inhibiting features.
Curtains will not require Flight Attendant assembly or set-up.
G.E. INTERNATIONAL 777 CREW BUNKS
The 777 aircraft will be equipped with the following features: 777 Flights Seven (7) Hours or Greater
Crew Bunk Parameters the Company has committed to install on all to flown in International
missions of seven (7) hours or greater shall include, at a minimum, components and characteristics:
1. At least four (4) bunks exclusively for Flight Attendant use contained wholly within a single
bunk module unit;
2. Interior bunk height (maximum head room in the bunk) of no less than thirty-four inches (34”);
3. Interior bunk length of no less than seventy-six inches (76”);
4. Interior bunk width of no less than twenty-seven inches (27”);
5. Individual reading lights in each bunk;
6. Individual audio capability in each bunk;
7. Individual temperature control in each module;
8. Individual air vents in each bunk;
9. Vanity mirror in each module;
10. Closet for storage of clothing in each module.
H.F. INTERNATIONAL 787 CREW BUNKS
The 787 will be equipped with shall include, at a minimum, the following features: components and
characteristics:
1. At least four (4) bunks exclusively for Flight Attendant use contained wholly within a single
bunk module unit;
2. Interior bunk heights will vary depending on bunk location within the bunk module. Middle
bunk height is thirty-two (32) to thirty-six (36) inches;
3. Interior bunk length of no less than seventy-nine (79) inches;

-- 288 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-6
4. Interior bunk width of no less than twenty-seven and one-half (27.5) inches;
5. Area and task lighting;
6. Individual service outlets;
7. PC power outlets in each bunk;
8. Personal air outlets in each bunk;
9. Compartment humidification;
10. Stowage pouch for personal belongings in each bunk.
G. INTERNATIONAL A321XLR CREW REST SEATS
The A321XLR aircraft will be equipped with the following features:
1. For Flight Attendant rest only;
2. Placarded or head rest cover; and
3. Curtained; and
4. Row 33 ABC and Row 34 DEF with couch function and sleeper pad.
H. INTERNATIONAL 737/A319/A320/A321 CREW REST SEATS*
On a B-737 and Airbus 319/320/321 aircraft used in operations requiring assigned crew rest seats,
the crew rest will be provided in the last row of the respective aircraft, in seats D-E-F consistent
with the following features. If the last row does not meet the standards outlined Paragraph 3. below,
then the second to last row of main cabin will be provided.
1. For Flight Attendant rest only;
2. Placarded or head rest cover; and
3. Reclining seats of the types provided to passengers in that class of service with individual
reading lights and air vents.
I. INTERNATIONAL A330 CREW REST SEATS
1. Seats A, B, G, and H at the 3L/3R exit;
2. Placarded;
3. Reclining seats of the type provided to passengers in that class of service with individual
reading lights and air vents;
4. Curtained;
5. An ottoman for leg rest.

-- 289 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-7
J.I. CREW REST SEATS/BUNKS – PROCEDURES FOR SIGNIFICANT MALFUNCTIONS
In the event one (1) or more Bunks/Crew Rest Seats become unavailable for use due to a
significant malfunction, the Company will provide substitute Crew Rest Seats as follows:
1. For flights seven (7) hours or more scheduled flying time, but not exceeding ten (10) twelve
(12) hours scheduled flying time, one (1) Premium Economy (PE) regular Main Cabin
passenger seat will be provided on a one-for-one basis for each Crew Rest Seat/bunk which
is unusable, up to a maximum of four (4), if available. If a PE seat is unavailable, a Main Cabin
Extra (MCE) passenger seat will be provided on a one-for-one basis for each crew rest
seat/bunk which is unusable, if available. If a MCE passenger seat is unavailable, one (1)
Main Cabin passenger seat will be provided on a one-for-one basis for each crew rest
seat/bunk which is unusable.
2. For flights over ten (10) hours scheduled flying time on 777/787 aircraft configured with crew
rest seat/bunks, one (1) regular Business Class passenger seat will be provided on a one-for-
one basis up to a maximum of five (5) for each bunk which is unusable, if a Business Class
passenger seat is available. Should a Business Class passenger seat be unavailable, a
Premium Economy (PE) Main Cabin Extra (MCE) passenger seat, up to a maximum of five
(5), will be provided on a one-for-one basis for each crew rest seat/bunk which is unusable,
ifmade available. If a Premium Economy (PE) MCE passenger seat is unavailable, a Main
Cabin Extra (MCE) passenger seat will be provided on a one-for-one basis for each crew rest
seat/bunk which is unusable, if available. If an MCE passenger seat is unavailable, a Main
Cabin passenger seat will be provided on a one-for-one basis for each crew rest seat/bunk
which is unusable. Cabin passenger seat will be made available.
3. Further, when the provisions above apply, and when a known significant malfunction exists
on an aircraft, blocking of the appropriate passenger seats shall be accomplished twenty-four
(24) hours in advance of scheduled departure time.
4. For aircraft with Premium Economy (PE) seating and/or Main Cabin Extra (MCE) seating, aisle
seats in these sections will be made available. Should aisle seats be unavailable, the last row
of the Main Cabin will be made available.
4.5. For the purposes of this provision, “significant malfunction” will mean a lack of functionality.
Examples of significant malfunctions will include:
a. the crew rest seat has no recline or the seat cushion is missing; or
b. there is no oxygen access to a bunk/seat.
c. infestation with insects or other pests.
5.6. Examples which do not constitute a significant malfunction include:
a. a lack of a reading light or missing curtain; or
b. an inoperative footrest.
K.J. CREW REST ACCOMMODATIONS
1. The Company and the APFA President or their designee will meet to discuss the design of
crew rest accommodation for existing and future aircraft falling within International crew rest
parameters.

-- 290 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
38-8
2. The Company will provide comparable accommodations for any future aircraft brought into
the fleet. The rest provisions in the prior collective bargaining agreement for the 757 and the
767 will continue to be considered in determining comparable accommodations.

-- 291 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
39-1
SECTION 39 - AMENDMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT
Either party hereto may, at any time, propose in writing to the other party an amendment or
amendments which they may desire to make to this Agreement, or supplemental agreements
thereto, and if such amendment or amendments are agreed to by both the said parties, such
amendment or amendments shall be stated in writing. Each party to this Agreement agrees to keep
the other informed, by written notice, of the individual(s) authorized to amend and/or enter into
understandings in matters concerning this Agreement.

-- 292 of 293 --

2024 CBA Redline Version
FINAL Tracked Against JCBA
9.12.2024
40-1
SECTION 40 - DURATION
A. The This Agreement shall become effective on September 12, 2024, December 13, 2014, and shall
become amendable as continue in full force and effect until December 12, 2019 and shall renew
itself without change each succeeding December 13th unless written notice of September 11, 2029.
intended change is served in accordance with Section 6 of the Railway Labor Act, as amended,
either party may, with notice served to the other party at least one hundred and twenty (120) by
thirty days prior to the amendable date, December 13, 2018, or any December 13 thereafter. If
notice is served at least thirty (30) days prior to December 13, 2018, the parties agree to commence
negotiations ninety (90) days one year prior to the amendable date. Once negotiations have
commenced, the terms of this Agreement will remain in effect until such time as a new agreement
becomes effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed this Agreement this September 12, 2024.
December 13, 2014.

-- 293 of 293 --

