T H E
C o n s t i t u t i o n
O F 	T H E
A s s o c i a t i o n
O F
P r o f e s s i o n a l
F l i g h t
A t t e n d a n t s
As amended by the APFA Membership
June 18, 2014

-- 1 of 71 --



-- 2 of 71 --

Ratified by the
APFA Membership on
January 3, 1980
Amended by the
APFA Membership on
February 23, 1981
July 21, 1982
October 30, 1985
April 3, 1989
September 11, 1991
October 24, 1994
June 13, 1995
January 7, 2010

-- 3 of 71 --



-- 4 of 71 --

T ABLE OF C ONTENTS 	i
APFA CONSTITUTION
T ABLE OF C ONTENTS
ARTICLE I 	G ENERAL ....................................................... 1
S ECTION 1 NAME ............................................................... 1
S ECTION 2 O BJECTIVES OF THE APFA ............................... 1
S ECTION 3 INSIGNIA .......................................................... 2
S ECTION 4 O FFICE LOCATIONS .......................................... 2
S ECTION 5 D URATION ....................................................... 2
S ECTION 6 P ARLIAMENTARY LAW ...................................... 2
S ECTION 7 D EFINITIONS .................................................... 3
S ECTION 8 R EQUIREMENTS ................................................ 5
ARTICLE II 	MEMBERSHIP ................................................. 6
S ECTION 1 E LIGIBILITY FOR M EMBERSHIP .......................... 6
S ECTION 2 O BLIGATIONS OF M EMBERS .............................. 6
S ECTION 3 B ILL OF R IGHTS OF M EMBERS ........................... 6
S ECTION 4 C LASSIFICATION OF M EMBERSHIP – A CTIVE...... 6
S ECTION 5 C LASSIFICATION OF M EMBERSHIP – INACTIVE ... 8
S ECTION 6 M EMBERSHIP C REDENTIALS .............................. 8
ARTICLE III 	G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA .......................... 9
S ECTION 1 T HE APFA C ONSTITUTION .............................. 9
S ECTION 2 GOVERNING B ODIES AND P OLICIES ................... 9
S ECTION 3 B OARD OF D IRECTORS ................................... 10
S ECTION 4 E XECUTIVE C OMMITTEE ................................. 14
S ECTION 5 T ELECONFERENCE M EETINGS.......................... 18
S ECTION 6 O FFICERS ....................................................... 20
S ECTION 7 B ASE C OUNCILS / B ASE R EPRESENTATIVES ..... 24
S ECTION 8 OAL O PERATION A DVISORY P ANEL ............... 26
ARTICLE IV 	F INANCES .................................................... 28
S ECTION 1 D UES AND A SSESSMENTS ................................ 28
S ECTION 2 INITIATION FEE .............................................. 29
S ECTION 3 D ELINQUENT D UES , A SSESSMENTS OR
INITIATION FEE (S ) .......................................... 29
S ECTION 4 FINANCIAL P ROCEDURES ................................ 29
S ECTION 5 B ONDING ....................................................... 31
S ECTION 6 S AVINGS / R ESERVES ...................................... 31
S ECTION 7 R ETENTION OF R ECORDS ............................... 31
ARTICLE V 	EXPENSES AND SALARIES ............................. 32
S ECTION 1 E XPENSES ....................................................... 32
S ECTION 2 C OMPENSATION FOR NATIONAL O FFICERS
AND D IVISION R EPRESENTATIVES ................... 32
S ECTION 3 O THER C OMPENSATION ................................. 32
ARTICLE VI 	N OMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS ...................... 33
S ECTION 1 NOMINATIONS................................................ 33
S ECTION 2 WILLINGNESS T O S ERVE ................................. 33
S ECTION 3 T ERMS OF O FFICE .......................................... 34
S ECTION 4 E LIGIBILITY T O VOTE ..................................... 34
S ECTION 5 B ALLOTING .................................................... 34

-- 5 of 71 --

ii 	T ABLE OF C ONTENTS
S ECTION 6 E LECTION C ONTEST FOR O FFICE ................... 36
S ECTION 7 V ACANCY IN O FFICE , NATIONAL OFFICERS .... 37
S ECTION 8 V ACANCY IN O FFICE , B ASE
R EPRESENTATIVES .......................................... 38
ARTICLE VII 	H EARINGS AND D ISCIPLINARY
PROCEDURES ............................................... 41
S ECTION 1 GROUNDS FOR C HARGES ............................... 41
S ECTION 2 FILING OF C HARGES ....................................... 41
S ECTION 3 R EVIEW OF C HARGES...................................... 42
S ECTION 4 S USPENSION FROM O FFICE ............................. 43
S ECTION 5 A PPOINTMENT OF THE A RTICLE VII
A RBITRATOR .................................................. 44
S ECTION 6 J URISDICTION AND A UTHORITY OF
THE A RTICLE VII A RBITRATOR ....................... 44
S ECTION 7 C OSTS ........................................................... 45
S ECTION 8 INTERNAL R EMEDIES ...................................... 46
ARTICLE VIII 	R EMOVAL OF O FFICERS AND
R EPRESENTATIVES ....................................... 47
S ECTION 1 R EMOVAL OF NATIONAL O FFICERS ................ 47
S ECTION 2 R EMOVAL OF A B ASE R EPRESENTATIVE .......... 47
S ECTION 3 R EMOVAL OF AN E LECTED M EMBER OF A
NEGOTIATING C OMMITTEE ............................ 48
S ECTION 4 R EMOVAL P ETITION ....................................... 48
S ECTION 5 R ETENTION OF R ECORDS ............................... 49
S ECTION 6 A PPEAL .......................................................... 49
ARTICLE IX 	A DMINISTRATIVE AND C OMMITTEE
POSITIONS .................................................... 50
S ECTION 1 E LIGIBILITY .................................................... 50
S ECTION 2 NOMINATION AND A PPROVAL P ROCEDURE .... 50
S ECTION 3 D URATION OF A PPOINTMENT ........................ 51
S ECTION 4 D IVISION R EPRESENTATIVES ........................... 52
S ECTION 5 NATIONAL C OORDINATORS ........................... 52
S ECTION 6 NATIONAL B ALLOTING C OMMITTEE (NBC) .... 53
S ECTION 7 B UDGET C OMMITTEE ..................................... 53
S ECTION 8 O THER A PPOINTMENTS.................................. 53
S ECTION 9 V ACANCY....................................................... 54
S ECTION 10 R EMOVAL ....................................................... 54
ARTICLE X 	N EGOTIATING C OMMITTEES ........................... 55
S ECTION 1 E LIGIBILITY .................................................... 55
S ECTION 2 D EFINITION AND D UTIES ................................ 55
S ECTION 3 T ERMS ........................................................... 55
S ECTION 4 C HAIR OF THE NEGOTIATING C OMMITTEE ..... 56
S ECTION 5 C OMPOSITION OF NEGOTIATING
C OMMITTEES ................................................. 56
S ECTION 6 V ACANCY....................................................... 57
S ECTION 7 R EMOVAL ....................................................... 57
ARTICLE XI 	C ONTRACT R ATIFICATION AND
STRIKE PROCEDURES ................................... 58
S ECTION 1 R ATIFICATION P ROCESS ................................. 58
S ECTION 2 S TRIKE P ROCEDURES...................................... 59

-- 6 of 71 --

T ABLE OF C ONTENTS 	iii
ARTICLE XII 	A FFILIATIONS , MERGERS ,
F EDERATIONS OR C HARTERS ........................ 60
S ECTION 1 ...................................................................... 60
S ECTION 2 ...................................................................... 60
S ECTION 3 ...................................................................... 60
ARTICLE XIII SAVINGS C LAUSE ......................................... 61
S ECTION 1 ...................................................................... 61
S ECTION 2 ...................................................................... 61

-- 7 of 71 --



-- 8 of 71 --



-- 9 of 71 --



-- 10 of 71 --

A RTICLE I ─ G ENERAL 	1
A R T I C L E 	I
G E N E R A L
Section 1. 	NAME:
The name of the organization shall be the Association of
Professional Flight Attendants. 	Whenever the acronym
“APFA” is used, it shall refer to and mean the Association of
Professional Flight Attendants. Whenever the words “union”
or “association” are used in this Constitution, they shall refer
to 	and 	mean 	the 	Association 	of 	Professional 	Flight
Attendants.
Section 2. 	O BJECTIVES OF THE APFA:
A. To 	operate 	a 	non-profit 	employee-representing
association.
B. To protect the individual and collective rights of the
members of the APFA and to promote their professional
interest and image.
C. To establish and to exercise the right of collective
bargaining for the purpose of making and maintaining
employment agreements covering rates of pay, rules and
working conditions for the members of the APFA.
D. To promptly settle disputes and grievances which may
arise between members and their employer.
E. To determine and negotiate, and continue to seek to
improve rates of pay, rules and working conditions, and
to maintain uniform principles of seniority and the
perpetuation thereof.
F. To sponsor and support passage of legislation and
appropriate regulations which may be beneficial to the
Flight Attendant profession.
G. To sponsor and support regular training and continuing
education programs to enhance the professional skills of
officers and representatives of the APFA.
H. To disseminate information to enhance the professional
status of the membership.
I. 	To levy dues and assessments upon the membership
with which to provide the funds necessary to carry on the
business and objectives of the APFA provided however,
that increases in dues and the levying of assessments
shall be made only in accordance with this Constitution
and applicable Federal law.
J. 	To purchase, hold, acquire, lease, mortgage and convey
real estate and personal property of every kind, nature
and description, in any state, the District of Columbia,
any territory or possession of the United States and any
country for the convenient conduct and execution of the

-- 11 of 71 --

2 	A RTICLE I ─ G ENERAL
Association's business, including the purchasing, leasing
and 	maintaining 	of 	equipment, 	buildings, 	and
improvements which may be necessary, directly or
indirectly, in connection with any of the business and
objectives of the Association, with the approval of the
Executive Committee, subject to approval by the Board
of Directors.
K. To do any and all other acts consistent with and in
furtherance of the objectives and purposes herein.
Section 3. 	I NSIGNIA:
The official insignia of the APFA shall be:
Section 4. 	O FFICE LOCATIONS :
The location(s) of the office(s) and headquarters of the
APFA shall be determined by the Board of Directors and
shall only be changed by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the
Voting Board of Directors.
Section 5. 	D URATION :
The duration of the APFA shall be perpetual, or until it is
dissolved as provided for in this Constitution. In the event of
dissolution of the APFA, the National Officers of the
Association shall act as agents for the membership and
shall dispose of all of the physical assets of the APFA upon
directive from the Board of Directors consistent with Federal
and State law. All of the liquid assets shall be prorated to
the membership on record in good standing of the APFA at
the time of such dissolution in proportion to the monies
being paid by such members, less any indebtedness;
provided that any amounts that may be paid to the APFA for
insurance or other benefits shall be dealt with separately
and prorated only to those members who contributed to
such funds and in proportion to their individual contributions.
Section 6. 	P ARLIAMENTARY LAW :
All questions on parliamentary law and rules of order shall
be decided according to the principles set forth in the most
current published edition of Robert's Rules of Order,
revised, except for those which are expressly modified by
this Constitution.

-- 12 of 71 --

A RTICLE I ─ G ENERAL 	3
Section 7. 	D EFINITIONS :
As used in this Constitution, the following words or terms
shall mean:
A. "Annual Convention" or "Special Convention" means
a meeting of the APFA Board of Directors wherein the
elected Delegates are empowered to elect and/or
remove Ad Hoc Members of the Executive Committee.
B. "Base" means one or more airports or co-terminals
located within a commonly recognized metropolitan area
to which APFA members have been assigned by their
employer(s) for administrative purposes and to which
members' flying assignments have been allocated.
(1) A base may include a military operation, a charter
operation, and/or a satellite for representational
purposes.
(2) A base may also include one or more "Other Airline
(OAL) Operation(s)" for representational purposes.
An OAL Operation shall be assigned to a base(s) by
action of the Executive Committee, subject to
approval by the Board of Directors.
C. "Delegate" means a Base President who has been
elected by secret ballot by the membership of a base, or
who has been duly elected by virtue of running
unopposed, as a representative to the Annual or Special
Conventions for the specific purpose of electing and/or
removing Ad Hoc Members of the Executive Committee;
or a Vice President who has been elected by secret
ballot by the membership of a base, or who has been
duly elected by virtue of running unopposed, to serve as
such a representative in the absence of the Base
President.
D. "Duly Designated Member" means an active member
in good standing of the APFA at a meeting or session of
the Board of Directors for the purpose of representing for
that meeting or session, or for part of that meeting or
session, one of the regular Voting Board Members.
E. "Duty" means an obligation of performance, care or
observance which rests upon a person in any position or
fiduciary capacity with or as a member of the APFA.
F. "Insignia" means the official emblem of the APFA.
G. "Majority of the Voting Board of Directors" means fifty
percent (50%) plus one (1) of the total "Voting Board of
Directors" as defined in Article III, Section 3,B,(2) of this
Constitution.
H. "May" or "Should" means a discretionary or permissive
act or directive.

-- 13 of 71 --

4 	A RTICLE I ─ G ENERAL
I. 	"Meeting" means an assembly of APFA members or
officers or representatives for a common purpose. 	A
meeting may consist of one or more sessions.
J. 	"Must" or "Shall" or "Will" means a word of command
which always has a compulsory meaning denoting
obligation; imperative and mandatory.
K. "Operation" means a type of flying shared by members
of the APFA. 	This Constitution provides for and the
APFA Board of Directors shall recognize the following
types of “operations”:
(1) "American Airlines (AAL) Operation" means an
operation where APFA members are covered by a
Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated by the
APFA on behalf of Flight Attendants employed by
American Airlines (AAL).
(2) "Other 	Airline 	(OAL) 	Operation" 	means 	an
operation wherein flying is performed by a subsidiary
or affiliated airline owned and/or operated by
American Airlines Group, and/or flying is performed
for or on behalf of American Airlines or American
Airlines Group by an independently-owned airline.
The 	Flight 	Attendant 	employees 	of 	an 	OAL
Operation may be represented by the APFA, but are
not covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated 	by 	the 	APFA on 	behalf 	of 	Flight
Attendants employed by AAL.
L. "Petition" means a written document stating a purpose
and carrying the printed names, bases, employee
numbers and the corresponding signatures of members
in good standing of the APFA.
M. "Privilege" means a benefit or advantage enjoyed by a
person in any position or fiduciary capacity with or as a
member of the APFA.
N. "Proxy" means a written authorization from one member
of the Board of Directors to another, or from one member
of the Executive Committee to another, for the purpose
of exercising a vote at any meeting.
O. "Responsibility" means an obligation to answer for a
duty to act or a failure to act by a person in any position
or fiduciary capacity with or as a member of the APFA.
P. "Resume" 	means 	a 	summary 	of 	a 	member's
achievements or qualifications offered in support of such
member's request to be considered for appointment to a
position with the APFA.
Q. "Rights" means those powers and/or privileges inherent
to a person in any position or fiduciary capacity with or
as a member of the APFA.

-- 14 of 71 --

A RTICLE I ─ G ENERAL 	5
R. "Satellite" means a location where an airport or co-
terminals serve a city outside of, or distanced from, any
commonly recognized metropolitan area that is served
by an APFA base as defined by this Constitution. For
representational purposes, a satellite shall be considered
part of a base as determined by the Board of Directors.
S. "Session" means a period of time within any one day
during which APFA members are assembled and
engaged in the transaction of the business of the APFA.
T. "Subject to" means that a decision is effective when
made and will be deemed approved unless and until
reversed by the designated body.
U. "Vacancy in the office" or "Vacancy in the position"
means the death, resignation, removal or incapacitation
of an officer or representative that renders him/her
unable to perform the duties of the office or the position.
V. "Willingness 	to 	Serve 	(WTS)" 	means 	written
notification that a member uses for self-nomination for
any elected position or to nominate another member for
any elected position.
Section 8. 	R EQUIREMENTS :
A. In order to be elected or appointed to any office or any
position with the APFA, any member must be an active
member in good standing as defined in Article II,
Sections 4,A and 4,B of this Constitution.
B. All APFA officers and representatives shall be required
to remain active members in good standing.
C. All APFA officers and representatives shall enforce this
Constitution and Collective Bargaining Agreement(s)
negotiated by the APFA.
D. All APFA officers and representatives shall carry out the
resolutions and/or policy decisions as set forth and
established by the Board of Directors.
E. All APFA officers and representatives shall be required
to attend and participate in training and continuing
education 	programs 	to 	improve 	the 	quality 	of
representation for the members of the APFA.

-- 15 of 71 --

6 	A RTICLE II ─ M EMBERSHIP
A R T I C L E 	I I
M E M B E R S H I P
Section 1. 	ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP :
A. Any person in the craft and class of Flight Attendant at
an airline at which the APFA is the recognized
Bargaining Agent for the Flight Attendant employee
group at that airline shall be eligible to join and maintain
membership in the APFA as hereinafter provided.
B. A Flight Attendant who accepts a paid position with the
employer outside the craft and class of Flight Attendant
shall no longer be eligible for membership in the APFA. If
the person returns to the position of Flight Attendant, he
or she shall be eligible to rejoin the union, upon payment
of APFA’s re-initiation fee.
Section 2. 	O BLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS :
Members of the Association do accept and agree to abide
by this Constitution of the APFA as it is in force or as it may
be altered, added to, deleted from or amended in
accordance 	with 	the 	provisions 	of 	this 	Constitution.
Ignorance of this Constitution will not be considered a
proper excuse for any violation of the provisions contained
herein. 	Inherent in the rights, privileges, duties and
responsibilities of membership in the APFA is the obligation
to responsibly exercise these rights, privileges, duties and
responsibilities.
Section 3. 	BILL OF R IGHTS OF MEMBERS :
A. All members of the APFA shall have the right of free
speech, freedom of assembly and freedom to dissent.
B. All members of the APFA shall have access to all
administrative and financial reports and records except
as provided in Section 5.B(1) of this Article II.
C. All members of the APFA shall have the right to
individual privacy.
D. All members of the APFA shall have the right to due
process and equal representation.
E. All members of the APFA shall have full equality of rights
and shall not be discriminated against because of
national origin, race, religion, creed, age, disability, sex,
sexual orientation or gender identity.
Section 4. 	C LASSIFICATION OF MEMBERSHIP :
– A CTIVE:

-- 16 of 71 --

A RTICLE II ─ M EMBERSHIP 	7
A. An Active Member is a Flight Attendant who has a dues
obligation 	to 	the 	APFA 	in 	accordance 	with 	this
Constitution, except as provided herein.
B. Membership Status-- Good Standing
(1) The rights and privileges of a member in good
standing shall include, but not be limited to:
a. attending union meetings;
b. voting 	on 	all 	matters 	brought 	before 	the
membership;
c. 	voting 	in 	elections 	for 	officers 	or 	base
representatives of the APFA; and
d. running for an elected position, or holding an
elected or appointed position with the APFA.
(2) A member, regardless of flight status, shall be
considered in good standing and shall maintain all
rights and privileges of the APFA so long as financial
obligations are met pursuant to this Article II and
Article IV of this Constitution.
(3) Subject to Section 4.B(4), below, and beginning on
the effective date of this provision, a member in good
standing will remain in good standing and will be
exempt from his / her dues obligation to the APFA
when the member is in an unpaid status from his /
her employer in excess of thirty (30) consecutive
days by:
a. termination by the employer and the member is
seeking reinstatement as provided for in the
applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement or
through an administrative or judicial proceeding;
b. suspension/withhold by the employer and the
member is seeking reinstatement;
c. 	unpaid sick status;
d. unpaid Injury on Duty (IOD);
e. hardship 	as 	approved 	by 	the 	Executive
Committee or by the Board of Directors;
f. 	approved military leave of absence; and/or
g. furlough by the employer.
(4) If a member is exempt from his / her dues obligation
under Section 4.B(3), above, in order to exercise any
of the rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of
members in good standing while in unpaid status, in
addition to any other dues owing he / she must pay
the dues that otherwise would have accrued during
the unpaid status, with no dues in arrears for more
than sixty (60) days.
(5) Once a member who is exempt from his / her dues
obligation under Section 4.B(3) returns to a dues-

-- 17 of 71 --

8 	A RTICLE II ─ M EMBERSHIP
obligated status, no dues shall be owed for the dues-
exempt period.
C. Membership Status -- Bad Standing: A member in good
standing shall lose the rights, privileges, duties and
responsibilities of good standing membership status and
shall be considered in bad standing:
(1) should his/her dues obligation be in arrears for more
than sixty (60) days; and/or
(2) after a final and binding determination by the Article
VII Arbitrator pursuant to the procedures of Article VII
of this Constitution, whereby the member's status
has been changed to bad standing.
Section 5. 	C LASSIFICATION O F MEMBERSHIP :
– I NACTIVE:
A. An Inactive Member is a person who has no dues
obligation 	to 	the 	APFA 	in 	accordance 	with 	this
Constitution, by virtue of the following:
(1) Retired Members: Those members who are retired
from a position as a Flight Attendant with an airline
represented by the APFA, and who were members in
good standing at the time of their retirement.
(2) Honorary Members: 	Those members upon whom
Honorary Membership has been conferred by the
Board of Directors.
B. Inactive members shall have the right to attend
Association meetings and participate in Association
activities except as provided in (1) and (2) below:
(1) Inactive members shall not have the right to vote in
any Association balloting, be appointed to any
Association position, run for any Association office,
or inspect the APFA records.
(2) Honorary 	members 	may 	be 	restricted 	from
participation in Association sponsored programs
where 	specific 	requirements 	prohibit 	such
participation.
Section 6. 	MEMBERSHIP CREDENTIALS :
A membership card and pin shall be available to every
member. The card shall contain space for the name of the
member; shall carry the signature of an officer or officers;
and shall bear the official insignia of the APFA.

-- 18 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	9
A R T I C L E 	I I I
G O V E R N M E N T O F T H E A P F A
Section 1. 	T HE APFA C ONSTITUTION :
This Constitution shall be the supreme law of the APFA.
A. This 	Constitution 	may 	be 	recommended 	to 	the
membership 	for 	alteration, 	addition, 	deletion 	or
amendment by:
(1) 	a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Voting Board of
Directors, or
(2) 	a petition(s) submitted in accordance with the
provisions of this Constitution carrying signatures
numbering twenty-five percent (25%) or more of
active members in good standing. The office of the
National Treasurer must, within thirty (30) days
following receipt of such petition(s), verify that the
names on the petition(s) are of active members in
good standing and must issue written certification to
the National Balloting Committee (NBC) authorizing
a special balloting of the membership to begin no
later 	than 	thirty 	(30) 	days 	following 	such
certification.
B. An affirmative vote by a majority of those active
members in good standing who return valid ballots shall
be required for the passage of any proposed alteration,
addition, deletion or amendment.
Section 2. 	G OVERNING BODIES AND P OLICIES :
A. The governmental powers of the APFA shall be vested in
the 	Board 	of 	Directors, 	and 	the 	officers 	and
representatives of the APFA in accordance with the
provisions of this Constitution. The final control of the
APFA shall be vested in the membership.
B. The APFA shall establish an Executive Committee. This
Constitution shall confer and vest in the Executive
Committee 	the 	rights, 	privileges, 	duties 	and
responsibilities to act as agent for the Board of Directors
in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.
C. The APFA shall establish a Policy Manual to incorporate
those 	policies, 	procedures, 	rules 	and 	regulations
affecting the governing bodies, officers, representatives
and members of the APFA in accordance with this
Constitution. The Policy Manual shall include but not be
limited to the following: 	trip removal policy, expense
policy, officer salaries, budget policy, headquarters
policy, and policies governing conventions and meetings
of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee.

-- 19 of 71 --

10 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
Section 3. 	BOARD OF D IRECTORS :
A. The Board of Directors is authorized and empowered to
take any and all lawful action consistent with this
Constitution to safeguard and protect the APFA, and the
rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities of the
officers, representatives and members of the APFA. The
Board of Directors is authorized to interpret this
Constitution and to establish, prescribe and adopt such
other policies which may be consistent with this
Constitution 	as 	required 	for 	the 	direction 	and
management of the affairs of the APFA.
B. Organization
(1) 	The Board of Directors shall consist of the National
President, 	National 	Vice 	President, 	National
Secretary, National Treasurer, and each Base
President.
(2) 	The Voting Board of Directors shall consist of each
Base President.
a. The National President, National Vice President,
National Secretary and National Treasurer shall
have a voice but no vote at a Board of Directors
meeting, except that:
b. when all voting members are present, and when
a vote on an issue by the voting members results
in a tie, with no abstentions, the National
President must cast the deciding vote.
(3) 	The Delegate(s) shall be those Base Presidents (or
in their absence, the Vice Presidents) who have
been elected by the membership of their bases, or
duly elected by virtue of running unopposed, to
serve as delegates to the Annual or Special
Convention(s) with the authority to elect or remove
Ad Hoc Members of the Executive Committee.
C. Annual Training: The Board of Directors shall participate
in an annual training session.
D. Annual Convention: 	The Board of Directors shall
convene once a year as the Annual Convention of the
APFA on a date and at a location determined by the
National President. The Annual Convention shall be held
no earlier than ninety (90) days and no later than fifteen
(15) days prior to the expiration of the current fiscal year.
E. Special Meetings/Special Conventions: 	The Board of
Directors may convene for special meetings or special
conventions.
(1) 	A Special Meeting or a Special Convention may be
called by the National President or by four (4)
members of the Executive Committee, or by a

-- 20 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	11
majority of the Voting Board of Directors by written
request to the National Secretary.
(2) 	The Special Meeting or the Special Convention
must convene no later than fourteen (14) days
following receipt by the National Secretary of such
request.
F. Quorum: In order to conduct the business of the APFA,
including 	business 	conducted 	by 	Teleconference
Meeting, a quorum or more must be present. A quorum
of the Board of Directors shall consist of two-thirds (2/3)
of the total Board of Directors.
G. Agenda: 	There shall be no restrictions on business
conducted at any convention or meeting of the Board of
Directors provided however, that no business shall be
acted upon without:
(1) 	ten (10) days notice of the agenda in writing to the
total Board of Directors prior to such meetings, or
(2) 	approval by a majority of the Voting Board of
Directors who are present at the meeting.
H. When more than a quorum is present at any convention
or meeting of the Board of Directors, all issues shall be
decided by a majority of the Voting Board of Directors,
except as provided for in this Constitution. In the event
that only a quorum is present, all issues shall be decided
by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the quorum, except
as provided for in this Constitution.
I. 	At any convention or meeting , except as provided for in
Section J below, each Base President shall be entitled
to:
(1) 	one (1) vote;
(2) 	issue his/her proxy in writing to another Board
member, provided:
a. The member must be present at the meeting
before giving a proxy to another member,
b. A proxy shall not be exercised when the member
is present at the table;
c. 	A proxy shall not be exercised in a secret ballot;
and
d. A proxy shall be valid until the conclusion of the
day's business;
(3) 	hold one (1) written proxy.
(4) 	Each Base President may duly designate.
a. In the event that a Base President cannot attend
all or part of a Board meeting, the Vice President
shall attend in his/her absence. Should there be
no Vice President available to fill the seat of the
Base President at the Board meeting, the Base

-- 21 of 71 --

12 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
President shall first designate from the Base
Council, then from the base at large.
b. Such designation shall be in writing, signed by
the Base President, and given to the National
Secretary prior to any vote by the designee.
(5) 	The Vice President or designee shall have the
same powers as the Base President at any
convention or meeting except as provided in J of
this Section 3.
J. 	Only for the purposes of electing or removing an Ad Hoc
Member of the Executive Committee at the Annual or
Special Convention(s), each Delegate, as defined in
Article I, Section 7,C of this Constitution and Section
3,B,(3) of this Article III, shall be entitled to:
(1) 	one (1) vote;
(2) 	issue his/her proxy in writing to another Delegate,
provided that such proxy shall not be exercised
when the Delegate is present at the table;
(3) 	hold one (1) written proxy; and
(4) 	in this instance only:
a. the Delegate issuing the proxy need not be
present at the Annual or Special Convention to
issue the proxy; and
b. the proxy may be used only for the secret ballot
vote to elect or remove Ad Hoc Members of the
Executive Committee.
K. Minority Report: Whenever two or more members of the
total Board of Directors do not agree with the opinion of
the majority on any matter, they shall have the right to
submit a written report concerning that matter to the
National Secretary. The National Secretary must then
append that minority report to the minutes of the
appropriate Board of Directors convention or meeting.
L. Jurisdiction and Duties: 	The Board of Directors shall
have 	the 	following 	rights, 	privileges, 	duties 	and
responsibilities;
(1) 	set policy for the APFA;
(2) 	modify the APFA Policy Manual as it deems
appropriate;
(3) 	approve the annual budget;
(4) 	set annual goals for the APFA as it deems
appropriate;
(5) 	assign to each Ad Hoc Member of the Executive
Committee those Presidents with whom s/he shall
maintain regular contact and communication;
(6) 	determine the number of administrative, committee,
and support positions as may be required under

-- 22 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	13
Article IX of this Constitution to meet the needs of
the membership;
(7) 	nominate and appoint members of the National
Balloting Committee and Budget Committee when
appointments are appropriate;
(8) 	review the base assignment of any OAL Operation
or satellite and, when necessary alter operation or
satellite assignments;
While not limited to the following, the Board of Directors
may:
(9) 	review the dues structure of the Association;
(10) override the Executive Committee rejection of a
proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement;
(11) establish the Regions, and the National Vice
President will assign the Regional Representatives;
(12) establish, combine, delete or change the duties,
responsibilities and specific job descriptions of
administrative, committee and support personnel in
accordance with the provisions of Article IX of this
Constitution for budgetary or policy reasons, taking
into consideration the recommendations of the
National Officers;
(13) direct special mailings to the membership;
(14) recognize the accomplishments and achievements
of members of the APFA;
(15) give annual awards;
(16) confer Honorary membership;
(17) approve hardship dues forgiveness and review
other hardship requests that may be brought before
the Board;
(18) appoint special committees;
(19) appoint or change the Article VII Arbitrator or
Alternate Article VII Arbitrator(s);
(20) approve Article VII administrative changes;
(21) suspend officers or representatives pursuant to
Article VII;
(22) take any and all appropriate action deemed
necessary by the Board and in accordance with this
Constitution to promote the welfare of the members
of the APFA, and this shall include the right to
reverse an action or decision of the Executive
Committee, 	National 	Officers 	or 	other
representatives, except as provided in this Article
III, Section 4.J.11 or Article VIII, Section 6.B of this
Constitution.
M. The Delegates at the Annual Convention shall nominate
and elect Ad Hoc Members of the Executive Committee
as terms expire or when a vacancy occurs. At the Annual

-- 23 of 71 --

14 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
or Special Convention(s), Delegates may remove Ad
Hoc Members and may nominate and elect Ad Hoc
Members to fill a vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term.
Section 4. 	EXECUTIVE C OMMITTEE:
A. The Executive Committee shall act as the agent for and
on behalf of the Voting Board of Directors, and shall
interpret this Constitution, subject to the approval of the
Board of Directors.
B. Organization: The Executive Committee shall consist of
the National President, National Vice President, National
Secretary, National Treasurer and five (5) Ad Hoc
Members.
C. Quarterly Meetings: 	The Executive Committee shall
convene for the transaction of business at least once
each quarter on a date and at a location determined by
the National President.
D. Special Meetings: 	The Executive Committee may
convene for special meetings.
(1) 	A Special Meeting of the Executive Committee may
be called by the National President or by four (4)
members of the Executive Committee by request to
the National Secretary.
(2) 	The Special Meeting must convene within seven (7)
days following receipt by the National Secretary of
such request.
E. 	Quorum: In order to conduct the business of the APFA,
including 	business 	conducted 	by 	Teleconference
Meeting, a quorum or more must be present. Seven (7)
members of the Executive Committee shall constitute a
quorum.
F. Agenda: There shall be no restrictions on business
conducted at any meeting of the Executive Committee
provided however, that no business shall be acted upon
without:
(1) 	three (3) days notice of the agenda in writing to the
Executive Committee prior to such meeting, or
(2) 	approval by a majority of the members of the
Executive Committee who are present at the
meeting.
G. All issues shall be decided by five (5) or more members
of the Executive Committee voting in the affirmative
except as provided for in this Constitution.
H. Each member of the Executive Committee shall be
entitled to:
(1) 	one (1) vote;

-- 24 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	15
(2) 	issue his/her proxy in writing to another member of
the Executive Committee, provided:
a. the member must be present at the meeting
before giving a proxy to another member,
b. a proxy shall not be exercised when the member
is present at the table;
c. 	a proxy shall not be exercised in a secret ballot;
d. a proxy shall be valid until the conclusion of the
agenda's business;
e. hold one (1) written proxy.
I. 	A member of the Executive Committee shall not be
entitled to duly designate another person to act for such
member at any meeting of the Executive Committee
except as provided for in Article VII, Section 4.C of this
Constitution.
J. 	Ad Hoc Members of the Executive Committee:
(1) 	At least sixty (60) days prior to the Annual
Convention, the National Secretary, via the official
publication of the APFA, shall issue a Willingness-
to-Serve 	(WTS) 	notification 	to 	advise 	the
membership that the Delegates will elect Ad Hoc
Member(s) of the Executive Committee. 	A WTS
notification 	may 	be returned to 	the 	National
Secretary 	at 	any 	time 	prior 	to 	the 	Annual
Convention for distribution to the Board of Directors.
(2) 	Prior to the secret ballot election or removal of Ad
Hoc 	Members 	at 	the 	Annual 	or 	Special
Convention(s), the National Secretary shall read the
names of those Base Presidents or Vice Presidents
who have been elected as Delegates to the Annual
or Special Convention(s) as certified by the National
Balloting Committee. The National Secretary shall
record the names of those Delegates present
and/or the names of those Delegates issuing or
holding a proxy, as provided for in Section 3.J of
this Article III. Only those Delegates recorded by
the Secretary may participate in the vote to elect or
remove the Ad Hoc Members at that Convention.
(3) 	Any member of the Board of Directors may
nominate an individual to serve as an Ad Hoc
Member. 	In nominating and electing Ad Hoc
Members, the Board shall not be limited to those
individuals nominated by WTS notifications.
(4) 	Nominations shall be put forward during the first day
of the Annual Convention, and elections shall be the
last agenda item for the Annual Convention. At a
Special Convention, nominations and elections may
take place on the same day. In no event may a

-- 25 of 71 --

16 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
Convention adjourn with a vacancy remaining in
any position of Ad Hoc Member.
(5) 	Ad Hoc Members shall be elected to serve
staggered three (3) year terms by a two-thirds (2/3)
majority vote of the recorded Delegates by secret
ballot. If no candidate receives a two-thirds (2/3)
majority vote in the initial balloting, Delegates may
nominate additional candidates in accordance with
J,(3) above.
(6) 	The balloting process for the election or removal of
Ad Hoc Members at the Annual or Special
Convention(s) shall be conducted by members of
the National Balloting Committee.
(7) 	Acceptance of a position as an Ad Hoc Member
shall constitute acceptance of a position with the
APFA for the purposes of this Constitution. An Ad
Hoc Member may perform additional duties as
deemed appropriate by the National Officers, the
Board of Directors or the Executive Committee so
long as such duties do not constitute acceptance of
an additional position with the APFA as defined in
Section 6 or Section 7 of this Article III, or in Article
IX, Sections 4, 5, 6 or 7 of this Constitution.
(8) 	Ad Hoc Members shall not be full time salaried
positions, but shall be compensated for expenses,
pay continuance and/or trip removal in accordance
with applicable provisions contained in Article V of
this Constitution and in the APFA Policy Manual.
(9) 	An Ad Hoc Member may be removed from his/her
position only at a Convention by a two-thirds (2/3)
majority vote of the recorded Delegates by secret
ballot, with or without cause.
(10) In the event of a vacancy in the position of Ad Hoc
Member, or in the event an individual declines the
position after the Annual Convention has adjourned,
the Executive Committee shall function with a
vacancy so long as at least a quorum of the
Executive Committee exists until the next Annual or
Special Convention. 	At that Convention, the
recorded Delegates shall elect a new Ad Hoc
Member to fill the vacancy and complete the
balance of the unexpired term.
(11) Ad Hoc Members shall function, when necessary,
as the APFA Grievance Appeal Panel to review
decisions of the Grievance Review Committee.
a. When the Grievance Review Committee decides
to withdraw a grievance, such decision may be

-- 26 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	17
appealed by the grievant to the Grievance
Appeal Panel.
b. The decision of the Grievance Appeal Panel
shall be final and binding and not subject to
reversal by the Executive Committee or the
Board of Directors.
K. Jurisdiction and Duties: The Executive Committee shall
be charged with the rights, privileges, duties, and
responsibilities to:
(1) 	assure compliance with the policies as set forth and
established by the Board of Directors;
(2) 	act on business or matters presented to the
Executive Committee by any member of the Board
of Directors or by administrative or committee
personnel;
(3) 	communicate on a regular and consistent basis with
members of the Board of Directors;
(4) 	determine 	the content 	of annual training 	for
members of the Board of Directors;
(5) 	confirm or reject the nomination of individuals to
serve in the administrative and committee positions
as provided in Article IX of this Constitution;
(6) 	establish special committees and/or task forces
which may be deemed necessary to the best
interest of the membership;
(7) 	confirm or reject the nominations of members to
other committees as established by this Constitution
or as may be established by the Board of Directors;
(8) 	confirm the National Treasurer's recommendation of
the accounting firm to prepare the annual audit;
(9) 	approve 	the 	initiation 	of 	litigation 	prior 	to
commencement of a lawsuit;
(10) take any and all appropriate action deemed
necessary by the Executive Committee and in
accordance 	with 	this 	Constitution 	and 	the
resolutions and policy decisions of the Board of
Directors to promote the welfare of the members of
the APFA, and this shall include the right to reverse
an action or decision of the National Officers or
other representatives, except as provided in this
Article III, Section 4.J.11.
While not limited to the following, the Executive Committee
may:
(11) recommend changes to the APFA Policy Manual;
(12) accept a proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement
as submitted by the Negotiating Committee for
referral to the membership for ratification;

-- 27 of 71 --

18 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
(13) reject a proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement
as submitted by the Negotiating Committee;
(14) adjust the budget to meet the unexpected needs of
the membership, provided that:
a. such budget adjustment shall require that the
Board of Directors be notified of the adjustment
within 	forty-eight 	(48) 	hours 	following 	the
adjournment 	of 	the 	Executive 	Committee
meeting wherein the budget was adjusted, and
b. such adjustment may not reduce any base
budget without prior approval by a majority of the
Voting Board of Directors;
(15) direct that a special mailing be sent to the
membership;
(16) recognize the accomplishments and/or contributions
of members and/or representatives of the APFA;
(17) approve hardship dues forgiveness and review
other hardship requests that may be brought before
the Executive Committee.
(18) order a special Base/Delegate election should a
convention be scheduled to convene and there
exists at such base a dual vacancy in the positions
of Base President and Vice President, or in the
event the base does not have an elected Delegate
to the convention. Such special election shall be
held in accordance with the procedures provided for
in the APFA Policy Manual.
Section 5. 	T ELECONFERENCE MEETINGS :
When it becomes necessary for the Board of Directors and/or
the Executive Committee to act on urgent or emergency
business through the use of a Teleconference Meeting, the
following procedures shall apply:
A. The National President, or four (4) members of the
Executive Committee, or a majority of the Voting Board
of Directors may advise the National Secretary that a
Teleconference Meeting of the Board of Directors is
required to conduct the business of the APFA.
B. The National President, or four (4) members of the
Executive Committee may advise the National Secretary
that 	a 	Teleconference 	Meeting 	of 	the 	Executive
Committee is required to conduct the business of the
APFA.
C. The purpose of the Teleconference Meeting must be
submitted to the National Secretary in writing and any
resolution(s) shall include the names of the maker and
second.

-- 28 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	19
D. Upon receipt of the request for a Teleconference
Meeting, the National Secretary shall provide written
notification to the Board of Directors or the Executive
Committee, as appropriate, that a Teleconference
Meeting is to be conducted. 	Such notification shall
include the name(s) of those individual(s) calling the
Teleconference Meeting and the complete text of any
proposed resolution(s) with the names of the maker and
the second. The National Secretary shall also specify
the date and time when the National President will
convene the Teleconference Meeting.
E. The National Secretary must request written verification
of receipt of the notification.
F. The Teleconference Meeting may be conducted as soon
as a quorum can be established, but no sooner than all
reasonable efforts have been made to notify all Board
members 	or 	Executive 	Committee 	members, 	as
appropriate, that a Teleconference Meeting is to be
conducted.
G. The Teleconference Meeting must be conducted no later
than the urgent or emergency circumstances dictate, but
in no event later than ten (10) days following receipt by
the National Secretary of the request for the meeting.
H. The Teleconference Meeting shall commence at the time
and date specified, provided that a quorum or more must
be participatory throughout the meeting. 	Should the
quorum be failed at any time during the course of the
Teleconference 	Meeting, 	the 	meeting 	shall 	be
considered to be adjourned and shall be rescheduled as
provided in D of this Section 5.
I. 	At a Teleconference Meeting of the Board of Directors
when more than a quorum is participatory, all issues
shall be decided by a majority of the Voting Board of
Directors except as provided for in this Constitution. In
the event that only a quorum is participatory, all issues
shall be decided by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the
quorum except as provided for in this Constitution.
J. 	At 	a 	Teleconference 	Meeting 	of 	the 	Executive
Committee five (5) or more members voting in the
affirmative shall be required to decide an issue, except
as provided for elsewhere in this Constitution.
K. 	The vote tabulation shall be conducted by the National
Secretary.
L. Once the vote is completed, the National Secretary shall
forward to each member of the Board of Directors and
the Executive Committee a copy of the tally sheet
attached to the resolution(s).

-- 29 of 71 --

20 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
M. All business conducted by a Teleconference Meeting
shall become a part of the permanent record of the
APFA.
N. Any business conducted by a Teleconference Meeting is
subject to reconsideration at the next meeting of the
Executive 	Committee 	or 	Board 	of 	Directors, 	as
appropriate.
Section 6. 	O FFICERS :
A. Definitions: The National Officers shall be the National
President, National Vice President, National Secretary
and National Treasurer.
B. Duties of the National President shall include but not be
limited to the following:
(1) 	The National President shall be the chief executive
officer of the APFA, and shall conduct the affairs of
the APFA in accordance with this Constitution and
the resolutions and policy decisions of the Board of
Directors and/or the Executive Committee.
(2) 	The National President shall sign any agreements,
supervise the activities of the APFA and carry out
any duties the Board of Directors and/or the
Executive Committee may request, in accordance
with this Constitution.
(3) 	The 	National 	President 	shall 	convene 	any
convention or meeting of the Board of Directors and
the Executive Committee. S/he must convene the
Board to review any proposed Collective Bargaining
Agreement between the APFA and AAL.
(4) 	The National President shall convene any meeting
of the OAL Operation Advisory Panel. S/he must
convene 	the 	Panel 	to 	review 	any 	proposed
Collective 	Bargaining 	Agreement 	between 	the
APFA and an airline other than AAL whose Flight
Attendant employees are represented by the APFA.
(5) 	The National President shall act as Chairperson for
the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee,
the Negotiating Committee and the OAL Operation
Advisory Panel. 	The National President shall
oversee all other national committees, unless
otherwise provided for in this Constitution or by
resolution or policy of the Board of Directors or the
Executive Committee.
(6) 	The National President shall recommend to the
Executive Committee all changes in employment
and staff requirements and, subject to the approval
of the Executive Committee, fix compensation for all
agents and employees of the APFA. The National

-- 30 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	21
President shall be responsible for the employment,
supervision and discharge of all agents and
employees of the APFA.
(7) 	The National President may address an Annual
Report to the membership.
(8) 	The National President shall nominate, and the
Executive 	Committee 	shall 	confirm 	or 	reject,
individual active members in good standing to serve
as National Chairs.
(9) 	The National President shall appoint Negotiating
Committee members in accordance with Article X,
Section 5, A(1)b of this Constitution.
(10) The National President shall have the authority to
hire, retain or employ general counsel and/or other
legal counsel for the APFA, subject to the approval
of the Executive Committee.
(11) The National President shall direct and coordinate
legislative and political initiatives and any lobbying
efforts on behalf of the Association to further the
objectives of the APFA.
C. Duties of the National Vice President shall include but
not be limited to the following:
(1) 	The National Vice President shall assist the
National President in the discharge of all duties. In
the absence of the National President, or should a
vacancy occur in the office of National President,
the National Vice President shall perform the duties
of the National President.
(2) 	The primary responsibility of the National Vice
President shall be to oversee the grievance and
arbitration process provided for in the Railway
Labor 	Act 	and 	the 	Collective 	Bargaining
Agreement(s) entered into between the APFA and
employers.
(3) 	The National Vice President shall serve as the
APFA's 	permanent 	Chairperson 	of 	the 	Flight
Attendant System Board(s) of Adjustment.
(4) 	The 	National 	Vice 	President 	shall 	coordinate
activities of the System Board(s) of Adjustment with
other departments within the APFA.
(5) 	The National Vice President shall nominate, and the
Executive 	Committee 	shall 	confirm 	or 	reject,
individual active members in good standing to serve
as Regional Representatives.
(6) 	The National Vice President shall determine the
specific base assignments of each Region and
assign and coordinate the activities of the members
appointed to serve as Regional Representatives.

-- 31 of 71 --

22 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
(7) 	The National Vice President shall be authorized to
hire, retain and employ legal counsel as may be
required to provide members with representation in
the grievance and arbitration process, subject to the
approval of the Executive Committee.
(8) 	The National Vice President shall ensure the
training 	and 	continuing 	education 	of 	all
representatives involved in the grievance and
arbitration process.
(9) 	The National Vice President shall coordinate and
chair a Grievance Review Committee to oversee
the disposition of grievances.
D. Duties of the National Secretary shall include but not be
limited to the following:
(1) 	The National Secretary shall be responsible for all
administrative records of the Association.
(2) 	The National Secretary shall cause to be kept an
administrative record of all officers, representatives
and appointees.
(3) 	The National Secretary shall notify the Board of
Directors, the Executive Committee and the OAL
Operation Advisory Panel of any convention or
meeting.
(4) 	The National Secretary shall cause to be kept a
record of all proceedings at any convention or
meeting of the Board of Directors, or at any meeting
of the Executive Committee and the OAL Operation
Advisory Panel.
(5) 	The National Secretary shall submit a written report
of all meetings of the Executive Committee and the
OAL Operation Advisory Panel to the Board of
Directors within fifteen (15) days following such
meeting.
(6) 	The National Secretary shall oversee the National
Balloting Committee.
(7) 	The National Secretary shall assist the National
President in the preparation of any Annual Report to
the members of the APFA.
(8) 	The National Secretary shall administer Article VII
procedures.
(9) 	The National Secretary shall update and ensure
distribution of the APFA Policy Manual.
(10) The National Secretary shall assist in establishing
regular training and continuing education programs
for representatives of the APFA, and shall maintain
the APFA training records of all representatives.

-- 32 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	23
(11) The National Secretary shall ensure that training
and 	reference 	materials 	and 	Association
publications and manuals are maintained.
(12) The National Secretary shall be responsible for the
library of the Association.
(13) The National Secretary shall establish and maintain
lines of communication between members of the
Executive Committee, Base Representatives and all
administrative departments and committees.
(14) The National Secretary shall assist the National
Treasurer in the discharge of all duties. 	Should
there be a temporary absence in the office of the
National Treasurer; the National Secretary may
perform the duties of the National Treasurer.
E. Duties of the National Treasurer shall include but not be
limited to the following:
(1) 	The National Treasurer shall be responsible for the
care and custody of the funds and securities of the
APFA, 	receiving 	all 	dues, 	fees 	and 	special
assessments assigned to the APFA.
(2) 	The National Treasurer shall be responsible for all
financial records of the APFA.
(3) 	The National Treasurer shall cause to be kept a
record of the APFA's membership so as to show at
all 	times 	the 	number 	of 	members 	in 	each
membership status or classification, their respective
places of residence, their post office addresses,
their base locations and the date when each person
became a member of the APFA and/or changed
membership status or classification.
(4) 	The National Treasurer shall cause to be kept an
individual record of all dues and assessments for
each member.
(5) 	The National Treasurer shall oversee the APFA
Budget 	Committee 	and 	shall 	assist 	in 	the
preparation of the annual budget.
(6) 	The National Treasurer shall submit the annual
budget to the Board of Directors for approval at the
Annual Convention.
(7) 	The National Treasurer shall advise the Board of
Directors and the Executive Committee of any
significant change in the financial standing of the
APFA.
(8) 	The National Treasurer shall submit a monthly
financial report to the Board of Directors and to the
Executive Committee as provided for in Article IV,
Section 4.C of this Constitution.

-- 33 of 71 --

24 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
(9) 	The National Treasurer shall submit a quarterly
financial review to the Board of Directors and to the
Executive Committee as provided for in Article IV,
Section 4.D of this Constitution.
(10) The National Treasurer shall submit with his/her
signature all Federal and State Reports required by
law.
(11) The 	National 	Treasurer 	shall 	oversee 	and
coordinate ongoing computerization of the APFA
headquarters files, records and systems.
(12) The National Treasurer shall oversee the daily
activities of the APFA headquarters office staff.
(13) The 	National 	Treasurer 	shall 	coordinate 	the
headquarters office staff to ensure assistance is
provided to administrative, committee and support
personnel.
(14) The National Treasurer shall assist the National
Secretary in the discharge of all duties. 	Should
there be a temporary absence in the office of the
National Secretary; the National Treasurer may
perform the duties of the National Secretary.
Section 7. 	BASE C OUNCILS / BASE R EPRESENTATIVES :
A. Organization: 	The Base Council shall consist of the
Base President, Vice President, and Base Council
Representatives (BCRs). When a base contains both an
American Airlines Operation and one or more OAL
Operations (as defined in Article I, Section 7,K,2 of this
Constitution), the Base Council shall also include an
OAL Operation Advisory Panel Representative (APR).
The members of a Base Council hold positions with the
APFA as Base Representatives.
B. Base Representatives shall hold such positions only at
the base where they are stationed.
C. The Base President and Vice President shall be elected
by the membership of the base at large.
D. Base Council Representatives (BCRs) shall be elected
by the membership of the American Airlines base at
which they are stationed. 	BCRs shall hold such
positions only at the base at which they are stationed.
(1) 	Each base shall be entitled to one BCR for each
one hundred (100) members or fraction thereof who
are stationed at the base.
E. The Advisory Panel Representative (APR) shall be
elected by the membership of the OAL Operation base
at which he/she is stationed. The APR shall hold such
position only from the OAL Operation base at which
he/she is stationed.

-- 34 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	25
F. A Base President may appoint an active member in good
standing to fill a vacancy on the Base Council to
complete the balance of an unexpired term, pursuant to
the provisions of Article VI, Section 8 of this Constitution.
G. A Base President may appoint additional individuals to
assist the Base Council to meet the needs of the
membership, however such individuals may not exercise
a vote on matters brought before the Base Council.
H. Duties of the Base President shall include but not be
limited to the following:
(1) 	The President shall represent the membership of
the base at any convention of the APFA, and if
elected 	by 	secret 	ballot 	vote 	of 	the 	base
membership, or if duly elected by virtue of running
unopposed, shall be empowered to elect and
remove 	Ad 	Hoc 	Members 	of 	the 	Executive
Committee.
(2) 	The President shall represent the membership of
the base at any other meeting of the Board of
Directors.
(3) 	The President shall have the right to investigate all
grievances and to take such action at the base as
may be necessary for the operation of the APFA.
(4) 	The President shall maintain the base office in order
to represent the members at the base and to
supervise the activities of the APFA at the base.
(5) 	The President shall have the responsibility for
calling, posting notice of and conducting all base
meetings, and shall keep the respective members
informed of the actions of the APFA.
(6) 	The President shall maintain the APFA bulletin
board(s) at the base.
(7) 	The 	President 	may 	establish 	all 	local 	base
committees not otherwise established by the Board
of Directors, the Executive Committee and/or the
National Officers.
(8) 	The President shall provide the Board of Directors
and/or 	the 	Executive 	Committee 	with 	any
information which may be requested and shall carry
out all resolutions and/or policy decisions of the
Board of Directors and/or Executive Committee.
(9) 	The President should provide a quarterly report to
the Executive Committee.
I. 	Duties of the Vice President shall include but not be
limited to the following:
(1) 	The Vice President shall assist the President, the
Base Council Representatives and the Advisory

-- 35 of 71 --

26 	A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA
Panel Representative in the discharge of their
duties and responsibilities.
(2) 	In the absence of the Base President, or should a
vacancy occur in the position of Base President, the
Vice President shall perform the duties of the
President.
(3) 	In the absence of the Base President, the Vice
President shall represent the membership of the
base at any convention of the APFA, and if elected
by secret ballot vote of the base membership, or if
duly elected by virtue of running unopposed, shall
be empowered to elect and remove Ad Hoc
Members of the Executive Committee.
J. 	Duties of the Advisory Panel Representative (APR) shall
include but not be limited to the following:
(1) 	The APR shall assist the Base President, Vice
President and Base Council Representatives in the
discharge of their duties and responsibilities.
(2) 	The APR shall assist the Base President with those
aspects of base representation unique to the OAL
Operation of the base.
(3) 	The APR shall represent the OAL Operation of a
base at all meetings of the OAL Operation Advisory
Panel.
K. Duties of the Base Council Representative (BCR) shall
include but not be limited to the following:
(1) 	The BCR shall assist the Base President, Vice
President and Advisory Panel Representative in the
discharge of their duties and responsibilities.
(2) 	The BCR shall coordinate with the Base President
in the investigation and filing of grievances.
(3) 	The BCR shall endeavor to provide expertise in any
or all areas of grievance, safety, health, scheduling,
contract language and interpretation, professional
standards, uniforms, hotel, membership records or
other areas deemed appropriate by the Base
President and/or the Board of Directors and/or
Executive Committee.
(4) 	The BCR shall coordinate activities with appropriate
APFA administrative and committee personnel and
departments.
Section 8. 	OAL OPERATION A DVISORY P ANEL:
A. Organization: The OAL Operation Advisory Panel shall
consist of the Advisory Panel Representatives from the
OAL Operation(s) at each base.
B. The Advisory Panel shall meet at least once a year with
the National Officers of the APFA to evaluate those

-- 36 of 71 --

A RTICLE III ─ G OVERNMENT OF THE APFA 	27
issues related to flying performed by APFA members
who are part of the OAL Operation(s).

-- 37 of 71 --

28 	ARTICLE IV - FINANCES
A R T I C L E 	I V
F I N A N C E S
Section 1. 	D UES AND ASSESSMENTS :
A. A member's obligation for dues and assessments shall
commence as of the date of his/her eligibility for active
membership. All members shall be required to pay dues
except as provided in Article II, Section 4,B(3), Section
4,B(4), Section 4,B(5), Section 5,A,(1) and Section
5,A,(2) of this Constitution.
B. Active members shall be required to pay monthly dues by
employer's dues check-off or by individual payment.
Dues payment must be received by the National
Treasurer no later than the end of each calendar month.
C. The Association's dues year shall run concurrently with
the fiscal year.
D. In 	the 	American 	Airlines 	(AAL) 	Operation, 	Active
Members, including those on probation, shall pay
monthly dues at the rate of forty-one dollars ($41.00) per
month.
In an Other Airlines (OAL) Operation, Active Members,
including those on probation, shall pay dues at the rate
of forty-one dollars ($41.00) per month.
Twenty-five (25) percent of any dues increase ratified by
the membership shall be placed in a negotiations, and
negotiations-related fund. However, this shall not apply
to dues received from Flight Attendants who are
represented by APFA as a result of its being certified as
the exclusive representative of the combined Flight
Attendant work group created by the merger of American
Airlines and US Airways. 	This exemption shall expire
when the Maintenance Agreement between APFA and
the Association of Flight Attendants ends.
E. The Board of Directors may conduct an annual review of
the dues structure of the Association to determine if the
structure should be revised, provided that no increase in
dues shall be put into effect unless ratified by an
affirmative vote by a majority of those active members in
good standing who return valid ballots.
F. Assessments may be levied on all active members and to
provide for extraordinary expenses, contingencies and
reserves, provided such assessments are first approved
by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Voting Board of
Directors, and subsequently ratified by an affirmative vote
by a majority of those active members in good standing
who return valid ballots.

-- 38 of 71 --

A RTICLE IV ─ F INANCES 	29
Section 2. 	I NITIATION FEE:
A. New members shall pay an initiation fee as determined
by the Board of Directors.
B. Honorary members will not be subject to the initiation
fee.
Section 3. 	D ELINQUENT D UES , A SSESSMENTS OR
I NITIATION FEE(S ):
A. Required dues, assessments and initiation fee(s) not
paid within sixty (60) days of the established billing date
will cause a member to be placed in bad standing. The
established billing date of said dues and/or assessments
shall be noted on all APFA correspondence referencing
this subject.
B. Members are subject to discharge for non-payment of
dues and/or initiation fee(s), when employed by an
airline having a Collective Bargaining Agreement with
the APFA that requires the payment of dues and/or
initiation fee(s) as a condition of employment.
C. Members returning from an unpaid leave status may set
up a payment plan to satisfy their obligation for back
dues, initiation fee(s) and/or assessments.
(1) 	The member must execute and sign a promissory
note and therein agree to pay all back dues,
initiation fee(s) and/or assessments within a period
of time not to exceed twice the number of months of
back dues owed.
(2) 	Upon execution of such promissory note, the
member shall be considered to be in good standing
status, and shall remain in good standing status
unless the member fails to pay the monthly
installment, or unless the member incurs an
additional back dues obligation.
(3) 	All notes must be executed at least thirty (30) days
prior to the balloting date of any APFA election or
referendum for the member to be eligible to vote in
such election or referendum.
D. Should the APFA establish a bank card acceptance
program for the payment of dues, initiation fee(s) and/or
assessments, all members shall be eligible to pay dues
by this method.
Section 4. 	FINANCIAL PROCEDURES :
A. The fiscal year of the APFA shall be from April 1 to the
following March 31.
B. The financial records of the Association shall be audited
annually by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) from an

-- 39 of 71 --

30 	A RTICLE IV ─ F INANCES
accounting firm recommended by the National Treasurer
and confirmed by the Executive Committee.
C. The National Treasurer shall prepare a monthly financial
report that contains:
(1) 	a statement of all assets, liabilities and fund
balance(s);
(2) 	a statement of income and expenses;
(3) 	a record of expenditures; and
(4) 	a record of pay continuance.
D. The National Treasurer shall prepare a quarterly
financial review that shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) 	the budget analysis for the present and immediate
past quarter, and projections for the remainder of
the fiscal year;
(2) 	a statement of all assets, liabilities and fund
balance(s); and
(3) 	the status of reserves and savings.
E. An accountant shall be employed by the APFA and shall
report directly to the National Treasurer. S/he shall keep
an accurate record of all receipts and expenditures of the
APFA, and prepare and submit to the National Treasurer
the following:
(1) 	all Federal and State reports as required by law;
(2) 	monthly financial statements; and
(3) 	the APFA's books for the annual audit by the
accounting firm.
F. All bills payable, notes, checks or other negotiable
instruments of the APFA shall be made in the name of
the Association of Professional Flight Attendants and
shall bear the actual signature of two (2) of the following:
the National President; the National Vice President; the
National Secretary or the National Treasurer. At least
two (2) of the following: the National President; the
National Vice President; the National Secretary or the
National Treasurer; may from time to time, transfer such
sums of money to administrative accounts, payroll
accounts, petty cash accounts, savings/reserve accounts
and such other accounts as may be necessary to meet
administrative and current obligations of the APFA.
G. No officer, agent or employee of the APFA, acting singly
or jointly with others shall have the power to make any
bills 	payable, 	notes, 	checks, 	drafts, 	warrants 	or
negotiable instruments of any description or nature or
endorse the same in the name of the APFA or contract
or cause to be contracted any debt or liability in the
name of or on behalf of the APFA except as expressly
prescribed and provided in this Constitution.

-- 40 of 71 --

A RTICLE IV ─ F INANCES 	31
Section 5. 	BONDING:
All officers and employees of the APFA shall be bonded
in the amounts not less than those provided for and
required by applicable Federal law.
Section 6. 	S AVINGS / R ESERVES :
The APFA shall adopt a reasonable savings and
reserves plan in the name of the Association of
Professional 	Flight 	Attendants, 	and 	such
savings/reserves shall be maintained at a reasonable
level. The National Treasurer shall be charged with
administration of financial and fiscal policies as set forth
herein, or as may be established by the Board of
Directors.
Section 7. 	R ETENTION OF R ECORDS :
All financial records of the APFA shall be retained in their
original form as required by State or Federal law.

-- 41 of 71 --

32 	A RTICLE V ─ E XPENSES AND S ALARIES
A R T I C L E 	V
E X P E N S E S A N D S A L A R I E S
Section 1. 	EXPENSES :
Authorized 	normal 	expenses 	incurred 	by 	any 	officer,
representative or member while on APFA business shall be
reimbursed by the APFA. 	Allowable expenses shall be
established by the Board of Directors and set forth in the
APFA Policy Manual.
Section 2. 	C OMPENSATION FOR NATIONAL O FFICERS :
The rate or method of compensation for the National Officers
of the APFA shall be established by the Board of Directors
and set forth in the APFA Policy Manual, and may be subject
to membership ratification.
Section 3. 	O THER C OMPENSATION :
The rate or method of other compensation, if any, and/or the
policy 	regarding 	pay 	continuance 	for 	other 	APFA
representatives shall be established by the Board of Directors
and set forth in the APFA Policy Manual.

-- 42 of 71 --

A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS 	33
A R T I C L E 	V I
N O M I N A T I O N S A N D E L E C T I O N S
Section 1. 	NOMINATIONS :
A. Any active member in good standing may self-nominate
for any office or elected position with the APFA.
B. Any active member in good standing may nominate
another active member in good standing for any office or
elected position with the APFA.
C. Any active member in good standing may be nominated
by another active member in good standing for any office
or elected position with the APFA.
Section 2. 	W ILLINGNESS TO S ERVE:
A. The National Secretary shall direct the National Ballot
Committee (NBC) to mail to each member and/or to post
on the APFA website Willingness-to-Serve notifications:
(1) 	at least one hundred and thirty-five (135) days prior
to the end of the term for National Officers; or
(2) 	at least ninety-five (95) days prior to the end of the
term for Base Representatives; or
(3) 	at least ninety-five (95) days prior to the balloting
date for the Elected Members of the Negotiating
Committee;
(4) 	at least forty-five (45) days prior to the balloting date
for a vacant Elected Member(s) of the Negotiating
Committee position, or
(5) 	more than fifteen (15) days following the directive of
the National Secretary when a dual vacancy exists
at a base, pursuant to Section 8,C of this Article VI.
B. The Willingness-to-Serve notification for the position of
Base President shall indicate that a Base President will
be authorized, by his/her election:
(1) 	to serve as a Delegate to the Annual or Special
Convention(s) for the purpose of electing Ad Hoc
Members of the Executive Committee, and
(2) 	to exercise a vote to remove an individual from the
position of Ad Hoc Member of the Executive
Committee, 	should 	such 	action 	be 	deemed
necessary.
The Willingness-to-Serve notification for the position of
Vice President shall indicate that a Vice President will
be authorized, by his/her election, to serve as a
Delegate pursuant to (1) and (2) above only in the
absence of the Base President.
C. Willingness-to-Serve notifications must be returned to
the APFA by the time and date specified and will be

-- 43 of 71 --

34 	A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS
retrieved on that date from the appropriate post office
box by members of the NBC or from an email address
designated by the NBC for the receipt of Willingness-to-
Serve notifications. There shall be a thirty (30) day time
period 	to 	submit 	Willingness-to-Serve 	notifications.
Willingness-to-Serve notifications received after the time
and date specified will not be considered.
Section 3. 	T ERMS O F O FFICE:
A. The term of office for the National Officers shall be for a
forty-eight (48) month period.
B. The term of office for the Base Representatives shall be
for a twenty-four (24) month period.
C. The terms of office shall commence on the first day of
the APFA fiscal year, as appropriate, for all elected
officers and representatives, except for elected members
of the Negotiating Committee who assume office
pursuant to the provisions of Article X, Section 3 of this
Constitution.
Section 4. 	ELIGIBILITY T O V OTE:
A. All active members in good standing of the APFA shall
be eligible to vote in the election of the National
President, National Vice President, National Secretary
and National Treasurer.
B. All active members in good standing at each base shall
be eligible to vote in the election of their Base
Representatives, pursuant to Article III, Section 7 of this
Constitution.
C. All active members in good standing shall be eligible to
vote for the Elected Members of the Negotiating
Committee, pursuant to Article X of this Constitution.
D. Any active member in bad standing must arrange to
become an active member in good standing not later
than the close of business on the fifth (5th) day prior to
the time limit for the return of ballots (the balloting date)
of any election or referendum.
E. The National Treasurer shall provide the NBC with the
appropriate list of active members in good standing for
any election or referendum three (3) days prior to the
balloting date of any election or referendum, and only
members whose names appear on such list shall be
deemed eligible to vote.
Section 5. 	BALLOTING:
A. All balloting of the membership provided for in this
Constitution shall be conducted by secret ballot, except
that during a strike or lockout, a Collective Bargaining

-- 44 of 71 --

A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS 	35
Agreement may be ratified as provided in Article XI,
Section 2.E of this Constitution.
B. The NBC shall prepare the official ballot with the names
of the candidates or the issue(s) to be decided, and shall
indicate thereon a place to vote for any candidate or
issue.
C. The ballot for the position of Base President shall
indicate that a Base President will be authorized, by
his/her election:
(1) 	to serve as a Delegate to the Annual or Special
Convention(s) for the purpose of electing Ad Hoc
Members of the Executive Committee, and
(2) 	to exercise a vote to remove an individual from the
position of Ad Hoc Member of the Executive
Committee, 	should 	such 	action 	be 	deemed
necessary.
The ballot for the position of Vice President shall
indicate that a Vice President will be authorized, by
his/her election, to serve as a Delegate pursuant to (1)
and (2) above only in the absence of the Base
President.
D. No later than twenty (20) days after the deadline for the
receipt of the Willingness-to-Serve notifications, the
ballot containing the names of the candidate(s) to be
voted upon shall be sent to the membership under the
supervision of the NBC. 	The balloting date for
candidates and/or issues, including run-off elections,
shall be thirty (30) days after the sending of the ballots to
the membership.
E. Ballots must be returned to the APFA in mail ballot
elections, and votes must be cast in electronic ballot
elections, by the time and date specified. Ballots
received or cast, as appropriate, after the time and date
specified shall be considered void.
F. Ballots shall be counted in the metropolitan area where
the APFA headquarters is located. 	Ballots may be
handled and counted by an independent accounting or
balloting firm which has been approved by the Executive
Committee and the NBC shall oversee all such balloting
for accuracy of procedures.
G. At the conclusion of the vote count, the NBC shall certify
the results of the vote for each position. 	The date of
such certification shall be the canvassing date. 	The
NBC shall submit this certification in writing to the
National Secretary. The National Secretary shall notify
the candidate(s) and/or the membership of the balloting
results by the APFA "Hotline", by posting on all APFA
bulletin boards and on the official APFA website.

-- 45 of 71 --

36 	A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS
H. In any balloting for National Officer, the candidate
receiving the majority of the valid votes cast for an office
shall be deemed elected to that office and shall be so
notified by the National Secretary.
(1) 	If no candidate receives a majority of the valid votes
cast for a national office, the NBC shall, within ten
(10) days following the Canvassing Date, prepare
and send to the membership a run-off ballot
containing the names of the two (2) candidates
receiving the highest number of valid votes cast.
(2) 	The candidate receiving the majority of valid votes
cast for an office in the runoff election shall be
deemed elected to that office and be so notified by
the National Secretary.
I. 	In any balloting for Base Representative, the candidate
receiving the highest number of valid votes cast for a
position shall be deemed elected to that position and be
so notified by the National Secretary.
J. 	In the event that a tie exists in the balloting for a Base
Representative, a runoff balloting shall be accomplished
pursuant to the procedures in H of this Section 5.
K. An issue will be considered ratified by the membership if
it receives a plurality of the valid votes cast.
L. All ballots and other election materials, notes and
records shall be sealed after being counted and certified
as provided for herein, and shall remain in the
possession of the National Secretary for at least one (1)
year from the balloting date in accordance with all
appropriate time limits required by Federal law.
M. Should the margin of victory in a ballot count be ten
percent (10%) or less and in the event a candidate
challenges the accuracy of such ballot count in writing to
the 	National 	Secretary 	within 	fourteen 	(14) 	days
following the Canvassing Date, a recount shall occur and
the APFA shall assume all related costs. 	Should the
margin of victory be greater than ten percent (10%), the
cost related to any such recount shall be borne by the
candidate challenging the accuracy of the ballot count.
Section 6. 	ELECTION C ONTEST FOR O FFICE:
A. Only candidates may contest an election for office.
B. The contestant must file a written complaint with the
National Secretary, directed to the NBC, within fifteen
(15) days following the Canvassing Date of the ballots.
C. The NBC shall investigate such complaint, and must
render its decision concerning the disposition of such
complaint no later than thirty (30) days following the
Canvassing Date of the ballots.

-- 46 of 71 --

A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS 	37
D. The contestant may appeal any decision rendered by the
NBC to the Executive Committee no later than forty-five
(45) days following the Canvassing Date of the ballots.
E. The Executive Committee shall consider such appeal
and must render its decision concerning such appeal no
later than sixty (60) days following the Canvassing Date
of the ballots.
F. Should the NBC or the Executive Committee fail to
respond to the contestant in the designated time periods,
the contestant will be free to pursue his/her LMRDA
rights. In any event, the contestant will have satisfied
the internal remedies provisions of the LMRDA following
the sixty (60) day period provided for in this Section 6.
Section 7. 	V ACANCY IN O FFICE, NATIONAL O FFICERS :
A. In the event of a vacancy in the office of the National
President, the National Vice President shall assume the
office for the balance of the unexpired term.
B. In the event of a vacancy in the office of the National
Vice President, if the unexpired term from the date of the
vacancy 	is 	more 	than 	eighteen 	(18) 	months, 	a
membership election shall be held to fill the vacancy in
accordance with the time limits provided in Section 2 and
Section 5 of this Article VI. The Board of Directors shall
appoint an interim National Vice President to serve until
the result of the election is known. If the unexpired term
of the National Vice President is eighteen (18) months or
less, the office shall be filled by appointment by the
Board of Directors.
C. In the event of a simultaneous vacancy in the office of
the National President and National Vice President, if the
unexpired terms from the date of the vacancies are more
than eighteen (18) months, a membership election shall
be held to fill the vacancies in accordance with the time
limits provided in Section 2 and Section 5 of this Article
VI. 	The Board of Directors shall appoint an interim
National 	President 	and 	an 	interim 	National 	Vice
President to serve until the results of the elections are
known. If the unexpired terms are eighteen (18) months
or less, the offices shall be filled by appointments by the
Board of Directors.
D. In the event of a vacancy in the offices of National
Secretary or National Treasurer, if the unexpired term
from the date of the vacancy is more than eighteen (18)
months, a membership election shall be held to fill the
vacancy in accordance with the time limits provided in
Section 2 and Section 5 of this Article VI. The Board of
Directors shall appoint an interim National Secretary or

-- 47 of 71 --

38 	A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS
National Treasurer to serve until the result of the election
is known. If the unexpired term of the National Secretary
or National Treasurer is eighteen (18) months or less,
the office shall be filled by appointment by the Board of
Directors.
E. The term of office of the National President, National
Vice President, National Secretary or National Treasurer,
if elected or appointed under the provisions of B,C or D
of this Section 7, shall commence immediately upon
election or appointment and, except for the interim
appointments, shall be to complete the balance of the
unexpired term.
Section 8. 	V ACANCY IN O FFICE, BASE
R EPRESENTATIVES :
A. In the event of a vacancy in the position of the Base
President, the Vice President shall assume the position
for the balance of the unexpired term.
B. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Vice
President, if the unexpired term from the date of the
vacancy is for more than six (6) months, a membership
election shall be held to fill the vacancy in accordance
with the time limits provided in Section 2 and Section 5
of this Article VI. 	If the unexpired term is for six (6)
months or less, the position shall be filled for the balance
of the unexpired term by an election by the Base Council
from among their members.
C. In the event of a simultaneous vacancy in the positions
of both the Base President and the Vice President,
creating 	therefore 	a 	dual 	vacancy, 	the 	following
procedures shall apply:
(1) 	Within fifteen (15) days of having been made aware
of the dual vacancy, the National Secretary shall
direct the NBC to mail to all members at the base
and/or to post on the APFA website Willingness-to-
Serve notifications for the positions of Base
President and Vice President, provided that the
unexpired terms from the date of the vacancy are
for more than six (6) months.
(2) 	In the event of a new base opening, within fifteen
(15) days following the first official report date for
Flight Attendants assigned to that base by the
employer, the National Secretary shall direct the
NBC to mail to all members at the base and/or post
on 	the 	APFA 	website 	Willingness-to-Serve
notifications for the positions of Base President,
Vice President, Advisory Panel Representative (if
applicable), and Base Council Representatives to

-- 48 of 71 --

A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS 	39
all members at the base, provided that the
unexpired terms from the date of the vacancy are
for more than six (6) months.
(3) 	A membership election shall be held to fill the
positions in accordance with the time limits provided
in Section 2 and Section 5 of this Article VI.
(4) 	The Executive Committee shall appoint an interim
Base President until such time as the election
process is completed for the Base Representative
position(s), or to complete the balance of an
unexpired Base President term of six (6) months or
less.
(5) 	The term of the Base Representatives, if elected in
accordance with the provisions of (1), (2) and (3)
above, shall commence immediately upon election
and shall be to complete the balance of the
unexpired term.
D. In the event that there are no candidates for the position
of Base President, the Executive Committee may
appoint an active member in good standing from that
base to be the Base President to complete the balance
of the unexpired term.
E. In the event a new OAL operation or satellite is opened
and assigned to a base, a membership election shall be
held 	to 	fill 	the 	positions 	of 	Base 	Council
Representative(s) and, if applicable, the Advisory Panel
Representative (APR) in accordance with the time limits
provided in Section 2 and Section 5 of this Article VI,
provided that the unexpired terms from the opening of
the OAL operation or satellite will be for more than six (6)
months. The Base President shall appoint interim Base
Council Representatives and, if applicable, an interim
APR to complete the balance of the unexpired term(s) of
six (6) months or less.
F. In any case, if the unexpired term of any Base
Representative is six (6) months or less, the interim
appointee shall complete the balance of the unexpired
term.
G. If any individual holds a position as Base President or
Vice President other than by either secret ballot vote of
the base membership or by having been duly elected by
virtue of running unopposed, such individual shall not be
considered a Delegate as defined in Article I, Section
7,C and Article III, Section 3,B,(3) of this Constitution.
Such Base President or Vice President shall not be
eligible to vote at any convention to elect or remove Ad
Hoc Members of the Executive Committee.

-- 49 of 71 --

40 	A RTICLE VI ─ N OMINATIONS AND E LECTIONS
H. In the event a convention is scheduled to convene and
there exists at a base a dual vacancy in the positions of
Base President or a Vice President, or in the event the
base does not have a Base President and Vice
President who is an elected Delegate to the Convention,
all reasonable measures shall be taken to afford the
members of that base the opportunity to elect a Delegate
to the convention.
I. 	When the Company combines international and
domestic operations/bases into a single base, or where
the Company combines two bases:
(1) 	If the unexpired terms of the incumbent Base
Presidents and Vice Presidents are for six (6)
months or less, those Base Presidents and Vice
Presidents shall continue to serve, as Co-Base
Presidents and Co-Vice Presidents, for the balance
of the unexpired terms.
(2) 	If the unexpired terms of the incumbent Base
Presidents and Vice Presidents are for more than
six (6) months, membership elections for the
President and Vice President of the combined base
shall be held in accordance with this Article VI. The
incumbent Base Presidents and Vice Presidents
shall continue to serve, as Co-Base Presidents and
Co-Vice Presidents, until the NBC certifies the
results of those elections, or a candidate(s) is duly
elected by virtue of being unopposed. The Base
President and Vice President of the combined base
shall take office immediately upon election, for the
balance of the unexpired terms.
(3) 	If the unexpired terms of the incumbent Operation
Council Representatives (OCRs) are for six (6)
months or less, those OCRs shall serve, as Co-
Base Council Representatives (BCRs), for the
balance of the unexpired terms.
(4) 	If the unexpired terms of the incumbent Operation
Council Representatives (OCRs) are for more than
six (6) months, elections for BCRs at the combined
base shall be held in accordance with Article III,
Section 7. The incumbent OCRs shall continue to
serve, as Co-BCRs, until the elections are
completed. The BCRs shall serve for the balance of
the unexpired terms.

-- 50 of 71 --

A RTICLE VII ─ H EARINGS AND D ISCIPLINARY P ROCEDURES 	41
A R T I C L E 	V I I
H E A R I N G S A N D D I S C I P L I N A R Y
P R O C E D U R E S
Section 1. 	G ROUNDS FOR C HARGES :
Any member is subject to fine, suspension or expulsion, or
suspension from or removal from office, for any of the
following acts:
A. Failure to pay dues, assessments or penalties levied by
the Association;
B. Advocating, or working toward, the displacement of the
APFA as bargaining representative (providing that
advocating, or working toward an affiliation, merger or
federation of the APFA pursuant to Article XII of this
Constitution shall not be grounds for discipline);
C. Willfully acting as a strike breaker during any work
stoppage duly authorized by the Association;
(1) 	Notwithstanding Section 1.C, above (which provides
as a grounds for charges willfully acting as a strike
breaker during any work stoppage duly authorized
by the Association) APFA shall not process any
charge of willfully acting as a strike breaker during
the 	November 	1993 	strike 	against 	American
Airlines.
D. Willful 	violation 	of 	a 	Flight 	Attendant's 	Collective
Bargaining Agreement;
E. Theft or embezzlement of Association monies or
property;
F. Willful violation of an express Article of this Constitution,
or of a proper and express written resolution or policy of
the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee;
G. Willfully acting in a manner that causes the Association
to violate its legal obligations; or
H. Willfully bringing charges without reasonable basis
against another member, officer or representative of the
Association, should such charges be dismissed for any
reason by the Article VII Arbitrator designated herein, or
should such charges not be sustained by the Article VII
Arbitrator.
Section 2. 	FILING O F C HARGES :
A. A charge may be filed by any member in good standing.
All charges shall be filed with the National Secretary and
shall be proffered in writing and shall be specific as to
the alleged act(s) and/or the Article(s) of this Constitution

-- 51 of 71 --

42 	A RTICLE VII ─ H EARINGS AND D ISCIPLINARY P ROCEDURES
allegedly violated which constitute the basis of the
charge(s).
B. The National Secretary shall cause a copy of the
charges to be served upon the accused and the accuser
within seven (7) days following receipt of the charges.
Such notification shall be by registered mail, return
receipt requested to their last known addresses, and
shall furnish the accused and the accuser a description
of all relevant procedures.
C. The National Secretary shall send a copy of all charges
to the Executive Committee and to the Board of
Directors within seven (7) days following his/her receipt
of the charges.
D. Time Limits:
(1) 	Charges based on Section 1.A through Section 1.F
of this Article VII must be filed within sixty (60) days
after the accuser becomes aware, or reasonably
should have become aware, of the alleged offense.
(2) 	Charges based on Section 1.G of this Article VII
may not be filed unless and until it has been
determined, in a separate legal proceeding (such as
a lawsuit), that the Association has violated its legal
obligations, or unless and until the Association
settles a legal proceeding brought against it by
furnishing substantial relief to an opposing party.
Charges based on Section 1.G above must be filed
within sixty (60) days after the accuser becomes
aware, or reasonably should have become aware,
of the completion or settlement of the legal
proceeding.
(3) 	Charges based on Section 1.H of this Article VII
must be filed within sixty (60) days following the
Article VII Arbitrator's decision which gives rise to
such charge(s).
E. The accused and accuser may be represented during
Article VII proceedings by any individual; however, the
APFA will not compensate either party for attorney's
fees.
Section 3. 	R EVIEW OF C HARGES :
At the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Executive
Committee following receipt of charges by the National
Secretary, the Executive Committee shall review the charges
for timeliness, specificity and validity.
A. Should the charges be determined to be timely, specific
and valid, such charges shall then be forwarded by the
National Secretary via registered mail, return receipt
requested to the Article VII Arbitrator designated herein

-- 52 of 71 --

A RTICLE VII ─ H EARINGS AND D ISCIPLINARY P ROCEDURES 	43
within 	seven 	(7) 	days 	following 	such 	Executive
Committee meeting.
B. Charges deemed untimely by the Executive Committee
will be dismissed without appeal.
C. Charges 	deemed 	non-specific 	by 	the 	Executive
Committee shall be referred back to the accuser. The
accuser may resubmit, one time only, such charges to
the National Secretary for review by the Executive
Committee at its next regularly scheduled meeting
without affecting the time limits of Section 2.D of this
Article VII.
D. Charges may be deemed invalid and dismissed if the
Executive Committee determines that the charges
address conduct protected by this Constitution and/or by
law (including the LMRDA Bill of Rights). Charges may
also be deemed invalid and dismissed if they fail to state
a proper claim under Section 1 of this Article VII. Should
such charges be dismissed as invalid, the accuser may,
within seven (7) days following receipt of notification of
dismissal by the Executive Committee, appeal to the
Article VII Arbitrator designated herein. If the Article VII
Arbitrator determines that the charges are valid, s/he
shall so advise the National Secretary, the accused and
the accuser, and the charges will be processed in
accordance with this Article VII.
Section 4. 	S USPENSION FROM O FFICE:
A. If charges are filed against a national officer or elected
representative based on Section 1.B, Section 1.C or
Section 1.E of this Article VII, the Board of Directors may
determine at any time during the pendency of the
charges that the alleged conduct giving rise to the
charges threatens the APFA's vital interests. The Voting
Board of Directors may then, by two-thirds (2/3) vote,
suspend the accused's authority as national officer or
elected representative until the threat is removed or the
Article VII Arbitrator designated herein resolves the
charges, whichever occurs sooner.
B. A national officer or elected representative suspended
pursuant to this section shall be entitled, upon demand,
to an expedited resolution of the charges, with a decision
rendered within thirty (30) days following the Board of
Directors 	Meeting 	where 	the 	officer 	or 	elected
representative was suspended.
C. If the charges are filed by or against a member of the
Executive Committee or the Board of Directors, such
member must appoint an alternate member of the
Association to participate in the review of the charges as

-- 53 of 71 --

44 	A RTICLE VII ─ H EARINGS AND D ISCIPLINARY P ROCEDURES
provided in Section 3 of this Article VII and, when
necessary, to participate in the vote regarding the
suspension of the member of the Executive Committee
or Board of Directors as provided in this Section 4.
Section 5. 	A PPOINTMENT OF
THE A RTICLE VII A RBITRATOR :
A. The Board of Directors shall appoint an arbitrator to
resolve all charges filed under this Article VII. 	The
Article VII Arbitrator, once appointed, shall serve until
s/he resigns or until the Board of Directors determines to
appoint a new Article VII Arbitrator.
B. The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more
alternate Article VII Arbitrators who shall have the
authority to hear and decide particular charges when the
Article VII Arbitrator is not available.
C. C. The Article VII Arbitrator and any alternate Article VII
Arbitrator(s) shall be a person expert in labor law who is
a neutral (such as an academic or professional labor
arbitrator), 	who 	has 	experience 	as 	a 	neutral 	in
adjudicating internal labor organization disputes, and
who has no other prior or current involvement with the
APFA.
Section 6. 	J URISDICTION AND A UTHORITY OF
THE A RTICLE VII A RBITRATOR :
A. The Article VII Arbitrator shall have power to resolve all
charges referred to him/her during his/her tenure.
B. The administrative procedures for handling Article VII
charges shall be included in the APFA Policy Manual.
The Article VII Arbitrator may from time to time propose
changes in these administrative procedures, and such
changes shall become effective and included in the
Policy Manual if they are approved by the Board of
Directors. The administrative procedures to be adopted
shall be in general compliance with American Arbitration
Association rules where practicable, but may not conflict
in any respect with the provisions of this Constitution.
C. The Article VII Arbitrator may, on his/her own motion or
upon motion filed by the accused, declare that charges
are untimely or do not allege a violation cognizable as
charges under this Article VII and thus are dismissed
without the need for hearing.
D. The Article VII Arbitrator may, on his/her own motion, or
upon motion filed by the accused, determine that
charges are not sufficiently specific and that they will be
dismissed unless the accuser amends them to provide
sufficient specificity.

-- 54 of 71 --

A RTICLE VII ─ H EARINGS AND D ISCIPLINARY P ROCEDURES 	45
E. The accused may move for summary dismissal of the
charges on the ground that the accuser does not have
evidence sufficient to sustain the charges and thus there
is no need for a full hearing. 	On receipt of such a
motion, the Article VII Arbitrator shall afford the accuser
an opportunity to identify evidence that would sustain the
charges. If the Article VII Arbitrator concludes, following
that opportunity, that the accuser does not have
evidence sufficient to sustain the charges, the Article VII
Arbitrator may grant summary dismissal of the charges.
F. If at any time during the pendency of the charges, the
Article VII Arbitrator determines (whether on his/her own
motion or the motion of the accused) that the conduct
furnishing the basis for the charges is protected by this
Constitution and/or by law (including the LMRDA Bill of
Rights), the Article VII Arbitrator shall have the authority
to dismiss the charges addressed to such protected
conduct.
G. No ex-parte communication may be had with the Article
VII Arbitrator either by the accused, the accuser or by
the APFA, or any member of the APFA except with
respect to scheduling, location and like administrative
matters.
H. The decision of the Article VII Arbitrator shall be final and
binding upon the accused and the accuser.
Section 7. 	C OSTS :
A. Initial costs of the Article VII proceedings shall be borne
by the APFA in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of this Constitution.
B. In the event a charge is dismissed by the Article VII
Arbitrator, or in the event the Article VII Arbitrator does
not sustain a charge, up to one-half (1/2) of the fees and
expenses 	of 	the 	Article 	VII 	Arbitrator 	and 	all
administrative costs to the APFA relative to that charge
may be levied against the accuser by the APFA upon
completion of charge proceedings brought under Section
1.H of this Article VII.
C. In the event the Article VII Arbitrator sustains a charge,
costs of the proceedings shall be paid by the APFA and
may be offset by a fine levied against the accused in an
amount determined by the Arbitrator, if a fine was
requested by the accuser.
D. In the event that it becomes necessary to enforce an
Article VII Arbitration award through judicial proceedings,
attorney's fees for those judicial proceedings may be
paid or reimbursed by the APFA to the appropriate party
seeking such enforcement.

-- 55 of 71 --

46 	A RTICLE VII ─ H EARINGS AND D ISCIPLINARY P ROCEDURES
Section 8. 	I NTERNAL R EMEDIES :
Members, officers and representatives shall exhaust internal
remedies under this Article VII for a period not to exceed four
months prior to taking any legal action against members,
officers or representatives of the APFA with respect to
matters cognizable as charges under this Article VII.

-- 56 of 71 --

A RTICLE VIII ─ R EMOVAL OF O FFICERS AND R EPRESENTATIVES 	47
A R T I C L E 	V I I I
R E M O V A L O F O F F I C E R S B A S E
R E P R E S E N T A T I V E S A N D E L E C T E D
N E G O T I A T I N G C O M M I T T E E M E M B E R S
Section 1. 	R EMOVAL OF NATIONAL O FFICERS :
The National President, National Vice President, National
Secretary or National Treasurer may be removed from office
by action of the membership.
A. A removal balloting shall be caused to be taken:
(1) 	within thirty (30) days following a two-thirds (2/3)
majority vote of the Voting Board of Directors, or
(2) 	by a petition(s) carrying signatures numbering thirty
percent (30%) or more of active members in good
standing. The office of the National Treasurer must,
within thirty (30) days following receipt of such
petition(s), verify that the names on the petition(s)
are of active members in good standing and must
issue written certification to the National Balloting
Committee (NBC) authorizing a special balloting of
the membership to begin no later than thirty (30)
days following such certification.
B. The time limit for the return of the ballots (the balloting
date) shall be thirty (30) days after the sending of the
ballots.
C. In the event that the removal request is for the National
Secretary, the National Treasurer shall assume the
duties of the National Secretary for the purposes of this
Article VIII. In the event that the removal request is for
the National Treasurer, the National Secretary shall
assume the duties of the National Treasurer for the
purposes of this Article VIII. In the event the removal
request is for both the National Secretary and the
National Treasurer, the Executive Committee shall
appoint a person or persons to oversee the procedures
pursuant to A of this Section 1.
D. In any removal balloting, an affirmative two-thirds (2/3)
majority vote by those active members in good standing
who return valid ballots shall be required to remove a
National Officer.
Section 2. 	R EMOVAL OF A BASE R EPRESENTATIVE:
A. A Base Representative may be removed from office by
action of the membership at his/her base.
B. A removal petition(s) carrying signatures numbering two-
thirds (2/3) or more of the active members in good

-- 57 of 71 --

48 	A RTICLE VIII ─ R EMOVAL OF O FFICERS AND R EPRESENTATIVES
standing stationed at the base may be submitted to the
National Secretary.
C. The office of the National Treasurer must, within thirty
(30) days following receipt of such petition, verify that the
names on the petition are of active members in good
standing stationed at the base.
D. Eligibility of the membership to sign the removal petition
shall be in accordance with eligibility requirements as
defined in Article III, Sections 7,C, 7,D or 7,E of this
Constitution.
E. Upon verification of a sufficient number of valid
signatures on the petition, the Base Representative shall
be removed from the position.
Section 3. 	R EMOVAL OF AN ELECTED MEMBER OF A
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE:
An elected member of a negotiating committee may be
removed from office by action of the membership.
A. The removal balloting shall be caused to be taken as
provided in Section 1 of this Article VIII, except that:
(1) 	the 	removal 	petition 	must 	carry 	signatures
numbering thirty percent (30%) of active members
in good standing assigned to the Operation being
represented by the negotiating committee member
(AAL Operation or OAL Operation), and
(2) 	the removal balloting shall be taken only within the
Operation being represented by the negotiating
committee 	member 	(AAL 	Operation 	or 	OAL
Operation).
B. Eligibility of the membership to vote in the removal
balloting shall be limited to those members assigned to
the Operation being represented by the negotiating
committee member (AAL Operation or OAL Operation),
as provided in Article X, Section 5 of this Constitution.
Section 4. 	R EMOVAL P ETITION:
A. The removal petition must clearly state the name of the
officer, base representative or negotiating committee
member to be removed at the top of each page of the
petition. The words "THIS IS A PETITION TO REMOVE
(Name of officer, base representative or negotiating
committee member) FROM OFFICE" must be made
clearly visible by the use of capital letters at the top and
bottom of each page.
B. Each member signing a petition must include the date of
signature, 	and 	his/her 	printed 	name, 	base, 	and
employee number.

-- 58 of 71 --

A RTICLE VIII ─ R EMOVAL OF O FFICERS AND R EPRESENTATIVES 	49
C. A petition to remove a National Officer shall be
considered valid for one (1) year from the earliest dated
signature or until an election is held for the office in
question, whichever is sooner.
D. A petition to remove a Base Representative shall be
considered valid for six (6) months from the earliest
dated signature or until an election is held for the office
in question, whichever is sooner.
E. A petition to remove an elected member of a negotiating
committee shall be considered valid for one (1) year from
the earliest dated signature or until an election is held for
the office in question, whichever is sooner.
Section 5. 	R ETENTION OF R ECORDS :
All removal petitions, ballots, balloting materials, notes and
records shall be sealed after being verified, counted and
certified as provided in this Article VIII. This material shall
remain in the possession of the office of the National
Secretary for at least one (1) year after the removal balloting
is conducted in accordance with all appropriate time limits
required by Federal law.
Section 6. 	A PPEAL:
An officer, base representative or negotiating committee
member removed pursuant to the provisions in this Article
shall have no right of appeal, except as to the procedure
utilized in the removal balloting.
A. An Appeal may be made to the Executive Committee
through the office of the National Secretary.
B. The Executive Committee shall investigate such appeal
and the decision of the Executive Committee with
respect to procedure and remedy, if any, shall be legal
and binding and not subject to reversal by the Board of
Directors.

-- 59 of 71 --

50 	A RTICLE IX ─ A DMINISTRATIVE AND C OMMITTEE P OSITIONS
A R T I C L E 	I X
A D M I N I S T R A T I V E A N D C O M M I T T E E
P O S I T I O N S
Section 1. 	ELIGIBILITY :
A. Only active members in good standing shall be
considered eligible for nomination under the provisions
of this Article.
B. A member nominated for a position as a Regional
Representative pursuant to Section 4 of this Article IX
must have been a member of the APFA for a period of
two (2) or more years, and must previously have served
in at least one (1) of the appointed or elected positions
with the APFA as defined in the APFA Policy Manual.
C. A member nominated for a position as a National Chair
pursuant to Section 5 of this Article IX must have been a
member of the APFA for a period of one (1) or more
years, and must previously have served in at least one
(1) of the appointed or elected positions with the APFA
as defined in the APFA Policy Manual.
D. The APFA Policy Manual may include provisions
concerning credit toward meeting the requirements in B
and C of this Section for service with a flight attendant
union at a carrier other than American Airlines but within
American Airlines Group.
Section 2. 	NOMINATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
When it is necessary to fill administrative or committee
positions as provided for in this Article IX, the following
procedures shall apply:
A. Membership Notification:
(1) 	At least sixty (60) days prior to the Annual
Convention, the National Treasurer, via the official
publication 	of 	the 	APFA, 	shall 	advise 	the
membership 	of 	the 	number 	and 	type 	of
administrative and committee positions within the
APFA contained in the proposed budget for the
upcoming fiscal year. Resumes for those positions
may be returned to the National Secretary at any
time prior to the Annual Convention.
(2) 	The 	National 	Secretary 	shall 	forward 	to 	the
Executive Committee the names and resumes of
those members interested in being considered for
the positions of Regional Representative or National
Chair.

-- 60 of 71 --

A RTICLE IX ─ A DMINISTRATIVE AND C OMMITTEE P OSITIONS 	51
(3) 	The National Secretary shall forward to the Board of
Directors 	the 	names 	and 	resumes 	of 	those
members 	interested 	in 	being 	considered 	for
positions on the National Balloting Committee
(NBC) or the Budget Committee.
B. 	Nomination and Appointment:
(1) 	At the Annual Convention, following approval of the
budget, the Board of Directors shall nominate and
appoint members to serve on the NBC and the
Budget Committee. The Board shall not be limited
to 	nominating 	and 	appointing 	members 	who
returned resumes.
(2) 	Following the Annual Convention, the National
Treasurer shall notify the Executive Committee and,
if applicable, the newly elected officers, of the
number and type of administrative and committee
positions approved in the budget for the upcoming
fiscal year.
(3) 	Not later than fifteen (15) days following the start of
the fiscal year, the appropriate National Officer shall
submit to the Executive Committee for confirmation
the name(s) of the nominee(s) for each available
position. 	The officer shall not be limited to
nominating members who returned resumes.
(4) 	Confirmation or rejection of the nomination shall be
made by the Executive Committee at its first
meeting following the start of the fiscal year. Such
confirmation shall be subject to approval by the
Board of Directors.
(5) 	In the event the Executive Committee rejects the
nomination of an individual for a given position, the
appropriate officer shall submit the name of another
nominee for confirmation or rejection by the
Executive Committee.
Section 3. 	D URATION O F A PPOINTMENT :
A. Once appointed by the Board of Directors or confirmed
by the Executive Committee, as appropriate, a member
appointed to an administrative or committee position as
provided in this Article IX shall serve for not less than
two (2) years in conjunction with the terms of the
National Officers, or until his/her successor is appointed,
whichever is later.
B. The duration of appointment is subject to elimination of
or a reduction in the number of administrative or
committee positions caused by action of the Board of
Directors at the Annual Convention, except as provided
in C below.

-- 61 of 71 --

52 	A RTICLE IX ─ A DMINISTRATIVE AND C OMMITTEE P OSITIONS
C. Once a member has been appointed to a position as a
Regional 	Representative, 	unless 	appointed 	as 	a
replacement 	Regional 	Representative 	pursuant 	to
Section 9,A of this Article IX, such position may not be
eliminated unless and until the individual serving in such
position resigns or is removed, or has served a minimum
of two (2) years whichever is sooner.
Section 4. 	R EGIONAL R EPRESENTATIVES :
A. The duties of the Regional Representative shall include
but shall not be limited to the following:
(1) 	The Regional Representative shall coordinate with
each President in his/her Region and assist with
those activities as deemed necessary by the
President 	which 	affect 	interpretation 	of 	the
Collective 	Bargaining 	Agreement(s), 	grievance
procedures and local policies for all operations at
the base.
(2) 	The Regional Representative is responsible for
representation of all first level dismissal cases
involving Flight Attendants.
(3) 	The Regional Representative shall assist in the
preparation of and/or presentation of cases before
the System Board of Adjustment at the direction of
the National Vice President.
(4) 	The Regional Representative shall initiate and
maintain communication with Company personnel
in his/her Region.
(5) 	The Regional Representative may assist in the
training of base representatives when deemed
necessary by the National Vice President.
(6) 	The Regional Representative must coordinate all of
his/her duties with the National Vice President
and/or National President of the Association.
B. Number: 	In no case shall there be less than one (1)
Regional Representative for each four thousand (4,000)
members, or fraction thereof, on the combined system
seniority list(s) of all airlines whose Flight Attendant
employees are represented by the APFA.
C. Nomination: The National Vice President shall nominate
members 	to 	serve 	in 	the 	positions 	of 	Regional
Representatives.
Section 5. 	NATIONAL C HAIRS :
A. Definition and Duties: 	National Chairs shall organize
and oversee the activities of the respective departments
and/or committees as established and defined by this
Constitution and/or the Board of Directors.

-- 62 of 71 --

A RTICLE IX ─ A DMINISTRATIVE AND C OMMITTEE P OSITIONS 	53
B. National Chair positions may include, but shall not be
limited to Scheduling, Safety and Security, Health, Injury-
on-Duty, Communications, Hotel, Training, Strike and
Contract.
C. Nomination: The National President shall nominate
members to serve in the positions of National Chairs.
Section 6. 	NATIONAL BALLOTING C OMMITTEE (NBC):
A. Definition and Duties: The National Balloting Committee
(NBC) shall oversee all facets of all elections and
balloting in accordance with the APFA Constitution and
Federal law. The duties of the NBC shall include but not
be limited to:
(1) 	supervising election and balloting procedures;
(2) 	determining eligibility of nominees;
(3) 	overseeing the preparation of ballots;
(4) 	determining ballot validity; and
(5) 	certifying results of the balloting to the National
Secretary, with the exception of the contract
ratification 	procedures 	provided 	in 	Article 	XI,
Section 2.E of this Constitution.
B. Number: In no case shall there be fewer than four (4)
members of the NBC.
C. Restriction: Members of the NBC may not hold or run for
any other position within the APFA, as defined in this
Article IX, Article III, or Article X of this Constitution.
Section 7. 	BUDGET C OMMITTEE:
A. Definition and Duties: The Budget Committee shall,
under the authority of the National Treasurer, annually
review the financial status of the APFA, its goals as
established by the Board of Directors, and the projected
expenditures for the coming fiscal year. 	Based on its
findings, 	the 	Budget 	Committee 	shall, 	with 	the
assistance of the National Treasurer, prepare the annual
budget pursuant to the Policy Manual of the APFA.
B. Number: In no case shall there be fewer than three (3)
members of the Budget Committee.
C. Requirements:
(1) 	At least one (1) member of the Budget Committee
must be a member of the Voting Board of Directors.
The National Treasurer may fill one (1) of the
remaining positions on the Budget Committee.
(2) 	The proposed budget must be completed not less
than sixty (60) days prior to the scheduled date of
the Annual Convention.
Section 8. 	O THER A PPOINTMENTS :

-- 63 of 71 --

54 	A RTICLE IX ─ A DMINISTRATIVE AND C OMMITTEE P OSITIONS
A. Nothing in this Article shall limit the ability of the Board of
Directors or the Executive Committee to establish other
special or temporary committees and/or positions as
may be deemed necessary to administer the business of
the APFA.
B. National Officers may establish and appoint members to
special or temporary committees and/or positions as
may be deemed necessary to administer the business of
the 	APFA subject 	to 	approval by 	the 	Executive
Committee.
C. Administrative personnel may be authorized by a
National 	Officer 	to 	appoint 	and 	utilize 	additional
member(s) to act in a special or temporary capacity to
support the activities of the various departments and/or
committees of the Association.
D. The provisions of Section 2 and Section 3 of this Article
IX shall not apply to these special or temporary
positions.
Section 9. 	V ACANCY :
A. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Regional
Representative or National Chair, the designated officer
shall nominate a replacement to fill the vacant position.
Confirmation or rejection of the appointment shall be
made by the Executive Committee. Once confirmed, the
replacement shall serve until his/her successor is
confirmed.
B. In the event of a vacancy on the NBC or the Budget
Committee, the Executive Committee shall nominate and
appoint an interim replacement member. 	The interim
replacement member shall serve until the next Annual
Convention. At that time, the Board shall nominate and
appoint a replacement to fill the vacancy and complete
the balance of the unexpired appointment.
C. Interim appointments as provided in this Section 9 shall
not be subject to the membership notification procedures
as provided in Section 2 of this Article IX.
Section 10. R EMOVAL:
Any member appointed to a position or committee shall be
subject to removal by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Executive
Committee; except that members of the National Balloting
Committee (NBC) and members of the Budget Committee
may only be removed by a majority of the Voting Board of
Directors.

-- 64 of 71 --

A RTICLE X ─ N EGOTIATING C OMMITTEES 	55
A R T I C L E 	X
N E G O T I A T I N G C O M M I T T E E S
Section 1. 	ELIGIBILITY :
A. Only active members in good standing shall be eligible to
serve 	as 	appointed 	or 	elected 	members of 	any
Negotiating Committee.
B. Appointed members of the Negotiating Committee for a
Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated by the
APFA on behalf of Flight Attendant employees of AAL
must have been a member of the APFA for a period of
two (2) or more years, and must previously have served
in at least two (2) of the appointed or elected positions
with the APFA as defined in the APFA Policy Manual.
The APFA Policy Manual may include provisions
concerning credit toward meeting these requirements for
service with a flight attendant union at a carrier other
than American Airlines but within American Airlines
Group.
C. Appointed members of a Negotiating Committee for a
Collective Bargaining Agreement between the APFA and
an airline or airlines other than AAL shall meet the
eligibility requirements as defined in the APFA Policy
Manual.
D. The members of a Negotiating Committee representing a
particular operation (AAL Operation or OAL Operation)
must be assigned to that operation (AAL Operation or
OAL Operation).
Section 2. 	D EFINITION AND D UTIES :
The APFA Negotiating Committee(s) shall be considered
standing 	committee(s) 	for 	the 	purpose 	of 	negotiating
Collective Bargaining Agreement(s) and further, may be
called upon to assist in the resolution of disputes arising from
the interpretation of such agreements.
Section 3. 	T ERMS :
A. Members of any Negotiating Committee, both elected
and appointed, shall assume their duties simultaneously,
no earlier than twelve (12) months and no later than six
(6) months prior to the amendable date of the respective
Collective Bargaining Agreement.
B. Members of a Negotiating Committee appointed and
elected to negotiate an initial Collective Bargaining
Agreement between the APFA and an airline or airlines
other than AAL, shall assume office on a date
designated by the Executive Committee, and necessary

-- 65 of 71 --

56 	A RTICLE X ─ N EGOTIATING C OMMITTEES
elections shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of Article VI of this Constitution.
C. Members of a Negotiating Committee shall continue to
hold such positions until their successors have been
elected and/or appointed as applicable.
Section 4. 	C HAIR OF THE NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE:
A. The National President of the APFA shall be the
recognized Chair of all APFA Negotiating Committees.
The National President is empowered to delegate the
responsibilities of chairing a meeting of the Negotiating
Committee to another individual.
B. The National President shall sign and tentatively accept
all Collective Bargaining Agreements on behalf of the
APFA provided however, that such acceptance shall be
confirmed by the Executive Committee or Board of
Directors, and ratified by the affected membership as
provided for in Article XI, Section 1,D or Section 2,E of
this Constitution.
Section 5. 	C OMPOSITION OF NEGOTIATING
C OMMITTEES :
A. The Composition of the Negotiating Committee for a
Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated by the
APFA on behalf of Flight Attendants employed by AAL
shall be as follows:
(1) 	Seven (7) members consisting of:
a. The National President;
b. Six (6) representatives, two (2) who shall be
elected by the membership at large, two (2) who
shall be appointed by the APFA National
President, and two (2) who shall be appointed by
the APFA Board of Directors by a two-thirds (2/3)
affirmative vote of the Voting Board of Directors.
B. In the event that an OAL operation, as defined in Article
I, Section 7,K,2 of this Constitution, is covered or is to be
covered 	by 	a 	Collective 	Bargaining 	Agreement
negotiated by the APFA on behalf of the Flight
Attendants employed by AAL, the composition of the
Negotiating Committee for that Collective Bargaining
Agreement, as provided for in A of this Section 5 shall
also include:
(1) 	Two (2) additional permanent members consisting
of: one (1) OAL Operation representative who shall
be elected by the membership of the OAL
Operation at large, and one (1) who shall be
appointed by a two-thirds (2/3) affirmative vote of
the Voting Board of Directors.

-- 66 of 71 --

A RTICLE X ─ N EGOTIATING C OMMITTEES 	57
C. The composition of the Negotiating Committee for any
Collective Bargaining Agreement between the APFA and
an airline or airlines other than AAL, shall be as follows:
(1) 	Three (3) or more permanent members consisting
of:
a. The National President or his/her designee;
b. One (1) elected representative from each airline
covered or to be covered by the applicable
Collective Bargaining Agreement, who shall be
elected by the membership of that airline at
large; and
c. 	One (1) representative from each airline covered
or to be covered by the applicable Collective
Bargaining Agreement. This representative shall
be appointed by the National President.
Section 6. 	V ACANCY :
A vacancy in the position of a Negotiating Committee
member shall be filled using the same procedures described
in Article X, Section 5.A(1)(b) of this Constitution. 	If the
vacancy is for an elected negotiator, an election for that
position shall be held in accordance with Article VI of this
Constitution. The National President shall appoint an interim
negotiator to serve until the election is completed.
Section 7. 	R EMOVAL:
A. An appointed member of a Negotiating Committee may
be removed from his/her position by the appointing
person or body. A removal by the Board of Directors
shall be by an affirmative two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
Voting Board of Directors.
B. An elected member of a Negotiating Committee may be
removed from his/her position by the membership as
provided in Article VIII, Section 3 of this Constitution, or
following the completion of the procedures provided for
in Article VII of this Constitution.

-- 67 of 71 --

58 	A RTICLE XI ─ C ONTRACT R ATIFICATION AND S TRIKE P ROCEDURES
A R T I C L E 	X I
C O N T R A C T R A T I F I C A T I O N
A N D S T R I K E P R O C E D U R E S
Section 1. 	R ATIFICATION PROCESS :
A. A proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement will be
submitted to the affected membership for approval only
after it has been accepted by a majority vote of the
Negotiating Committee and presented to the Executive
Committee.
(1) 	Should the Executive Committee reject a proposed
agreement, 	the 	Negotiating 	Committee 	shall
present the proposed agreement to the Board of
Directors.
(2) 	The Board of Directors may decide to submit the
proposed 	agreement 	to 	the 	membership 	for
approval
B. A decision by the Executive Committee, or the Board of
Directors of the APFA, to submit a proposed agreement
to the membership for approval should not necessarily
be construed to be an endorsement of the merits of the
proposed agreement.
C. The affected membership shall be given the complete
changes to a Collective Bargaining Agreement prior to or
at the start of the balloting period.
D. A proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be
ratified by an affirmative vote by a majority of those
active members in good standing covered by the
applicable Agreement who cast valid ballots. Members
may vote only on those agreements which apply to their
respective airline(s), unless covered under a master
agreement.
E. Balloting:
(1) 	The sole issue to appear on the secret ballot shall
be the ratification of the Collective Bargaining
Agreement.
(2) 	The time limit for the return of ratification ballots (the
Ballot Date) shall be not less than thirty (30) days
after the sending of the ballots to the respective
membership.
F. Any letters of agreement or side letters entered into
between an employer and the APFA during or outside of
the Collective Bargaining negotiations which alter the
rates of pay, rules, or working conditions for covered
Flight Attendant employees shall be subject to ratification
by the Executive Committee. If the Executive Committee

-- 68 of 71 --

A RTICLE XI ─ C ONTRACT R ATIFICATION AND S TRIKE P ROCEDURES 	59
determines that the alteration is substantial, such letter
of agreement or side letter shall be submitted for
ratification to the membership covered by the applicable
Agreement pursuant to the procedures outlined in this
Article XI.
G. Upon ratification by the membership, a Collective
Bargaining Agreement and/or letters of agreement shall
be deemed binding.
Section 2. 	S TRIKE P ROCEDURES :
A. The Executive Committee or Negotiating Committee may
recommend a balloting of the membership to authorize a
strike. 	Any such balloting must be approved by the
Board of Directors.
B. A strike shall be authorized only by an affirmative vote by
a majority of those active members in good standing
covered 	by 	the 	applicable 	Collective 	Bargaining
Agreement who cast valid ballots.
C. Such strike authorization shall empower the Board of
Directors to authorize the National President to call a
strike in accordance with the Railway Labor Act.
D. Once a strike has commenced, it may be called off by
the Board of Directors.
E. During a strike, the procedures for voting on a proposed
Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be as follows:
(1) 	The National President shall call system-wide
membership meetings for the purpose of voting on
a proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement.
(2) 	The affected membership shall be presented with
the complete changes to a Collective Bargaining
Agreement prior to the balloting.
(3) 	The Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be
ratified by an affirmative vote by a majority of those
members 	in 	good 	standing 	covered 	by 	the
Agreement present at the membership meetings
who cast valid ballots.
(4) 	The vote shall be accomplished by secret ballot.
(5) 	Upon 	ratification 	of 	the 	Collective 	Bargaining
Agreement, the National President shall notify the
membership of the conclusion of the strike, and the
complete language of the new Agreement shall be
provided to the membership.

-- 69 of 71 --

60 	A RTICLE XII ─ A FFILIATIONS, M ERGERS, F EDERATIONS OR C HARTERS
A R T I C L E 	X I I
A F F I L I A T I O N S , M E R G E R S ,
F E D E R A T I O N S O R C H A R T E R S
Section 1.
Any action to affiliate, merge or federate the APFA with any
other labor organization; or to issue a charter; or to organize
an employee group (except as provided in Section 2 of this
Article XII) to provide representation to that employee group
for the purposes of the Railway Labor Act shall be subject to
prior approval by:
A. a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Executive Committee,
and
B. a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Voting Board of
Directors, and
C. an affirmative vote by a majority of those active
members in good standing who return valid ballots.
Section 2.
Any action to organize a Flight Attendant employee group
that is employed by a subsidiary or affiliated airline owned
and/or operated by American Airlines Group, or that is
employed by an independently-owned airline that performs
flying for or on behalf of American Airlines or American
Airlines Group, to provide representation to that employee
group for the purposes of the Railway Labor Act shall be
subject to prior approval by:
A. a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Executive Committee,
and
B. a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the Voting Board of
Directors.
Section 3.
Any agreement to affiliate, merge, federate, issue a charter,
or to represent another employee group shall protect and
preserve the APFA's right to autonomy in all of its actions;
and shall protect and preserve the collective bargaining
relationship between American Airlines and the Flight
Attendant employees of American Airlines represented by the
APFA.

-- 70 of 71 --

A RTICLE XIII ─ S AVINGS C LAUSE 	61
A R T I C L E 	X I I I
S A V I N G S C L A U S E
Section 1.
Should any part, section, provision or Article of this
Constitution be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any
existing or subsequently enacted legislation, or by any final
decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation
of such part, section, provision or Article of this Constitution
shall not invalidate any remaining portions, which shall
continue in full force and effect.
Section 2.
If any part, section, provision or Article of this Constitution is
invalidated as described above, the Executive Committee is
empowered, subject to the approval of the Board of Directors,
to promptly amend the invalidated part, section, provision or
Article to the limited extent necessary to conform to the
enacted legislation or final judicial decree which resulted in
the invalidation. 	Any such amendment shall preserve, as
nearly as possible consistent with the law, the invalidated
part, section, provision or Article.
A. Such amendment shall become effective when adopted
by the Executive Committee and shall remain in effect
until the Board of Directors acts as described in B.
below.
B. At the next Annual Convention or at an earlier special
meeting of the Board of Directors if one is convened, the
Board of Directors shall consider the amendment and
shall either:
(1) 	decide that the amendment or an alternative
amendment be submitted to the APFA membership
for approval, or
(2) 	determine that there should be no amendment and
that the Constitution shall remain as is, minus the
invalidated part, section, provision or Article.
C. In the event an amendment is sent to the APFA
membership for approval, the proposed amendment
shall be in effect until the membership approves or
rejects it unless the Board of Directors expressly
provides otherwise.

-- 71 of 71 --

